Global IT Handbook
  
PolicyForm(s)History
Applicability
This policy is applicable to all employees of HCLTech and associated authorized third parties.

Policy Details
INDEX

1      Global Information Technology: Acceptable Usage Policy

2      Global Information Technology: Customer Project Management Policy

3      Global Information Technology: Email Management Policy

4      Global Information Technology: Incident Management Policy

5      Global Information Technology: Internet Web Access Policy

6      Global Information Technology: Access Management Policy

7      Global Information Technology: Asset Management Policy

8      Global Information Technology: Cloud Management Policy

9      Global Information Technology: Data Retention Policy

10   Global Information Technology: Password Management Policy

11   Global Information Technology: Request Fulfilment Policy

12   Global Information Technology: Backup & Restoration Management Policy

13   Global Information Technology: Desktop-Laptop Management Policy

14   Global Information Technology: Software Asset Management Policy

 

1. Acceptable Usage Policy

This policy is applicable to all employees of HCLTech and associated authorized third parties

The Acceptable Usage Policy (“AUP”) sets out minimum standards for the acceptable and appropriate use of HCLTech’ s IT resources by HCLTech personnel. HCLTech shall adopt the policies included in this AUP unless prohibited by local laws or regulations. Where they are in conflict, local laws and regulations prevail.

Personal Use

HCLTech’s IT and information assets are provided to HCLTech employees and authorized third parties for business purpose. However, HCLTech allows limited, infrequent or incidental use of HCLTech information systems for personal use. Any personal use will:

Adhere to HCLTech Security policies and guidelines.Not interfere with HCLTech’ s business, individual’s productivity, or their colleagues productivity.Not adversely affect HCLTech’ s ability to provide effective Computer systems, and;Not adversely impact on HCLTech’s computing costs.

Confidentiality

Data created by users on HCLTech information systems shall be a property of HCLTech.Users shall not provide information about, or lists of, HCLTech employees to parties outside the Company.Information that users consider sensitive or vulnerable shall be classified as per the data classification rules and controls shall be placed that are apt for such classification.

Property

Employees shall adhere to all intellectual property and copyright law. Users shall always obtain copyright holder’s permission before downloading information from internet or other public computer system.Confidential information shall not be transferred to or stored on a personal or third party owned equipment or service without authorization from authorized HCLTech management.All intellectual property rights in computer data, computer files and databases created or altered during the course of employment shall be property of HCLTech. On termination of employment, users shall return all copies of such data, files, and databases in their possession. User shall not delete copy of any such computer data, files or databases where that copy is the only, or last remaining, or most up to date copy.

Any device used may from time to time need to be accessed in connection with analyses conducted with respect to, among other things, data security incidents. Cooperation in these analyses, including the facilitation of access, is required, with the understanding that commercially reasonable steps will be taken to minimize the effect on the user.

Desktop/Laptop & Mobile Device Security

To prevent any unauthorized access to personal computing devices, users shall always lock the Desktop/Laptop when not in use, and set screen savers to require password protection on. Refer Desktop/Laptop usage policy for further details.When HCLTech computers, mobile devices or media containing confidential information must be left unattended in a vehicle, they must be locked in a secure section.HCLTech IT and information assets must not be left unattended in any public place at any time.HCLTech issued laptops must never be checked-in as baggage unless this is mandated by security officials at the airport.The employee shall use his or her mobile computing devices in an ethical manner at all times.Users shall ensure the individual mobile device(s) (smartphone, tablets etc.) are updated to latest version of mobile operating system (IOS, Android, Windows Mobile). It is recommended to configure the mobile devices to download and install the latest version automatically whenever available.Mobile devices provided by HCLTech shall not be used at any time to: Store or transmit illicit materials Store or transmit proprietary information belonging to HCLTech or another company Harass others Engage in outside business activitiesHCLTech reserves the right to disconnect devices or disable services without notification. HCLTech may, at its discretion, choose to disclose the underlying reasons to the user(s).HCLTech reserves the right to take appropriate disciplinary action up to and including termination for non-compliance with this policy.

Passwords and Log-in IDs

Every user shall have a unique login ID and password to access information systems of HCLTech. Users shall be responsible for setting their passwords as per the Password Management Policy (Refer: Password Management Policy) and ensuring that their password is protected.Users shall not write down their passwords but protect them by committing them to memory.In order to prevent unauthorized use, users shall ensure that they do not divulge their password to any other person.Users shall not disclose passwords or allow any other person access to the Company's information systems.Users shall not transmit ID's, passwords, internal network configurations or addresses or system names over the InternetUsers shall not leave their computer unattended while connected to the Internet.

Software Use

HCLTech personnel using HCLTech IT and information processing assets shall be responsible for complying with all applicable laws, regulations and license terms that accompany software use, including restrictions on copying or modifying the software or associated documentation.All software installation/usage in HCLTech environment shall be in accordance with the Software Asset Management policy and process.HCLTech personnel shall not change or disable any configuration and settings including but not limited to security related software that is part of the standard configuration.

Internet Use

HCLTech personnel using the internet using HCLTech IT assets must comply with applicable laws, regulations and ensure that they do not compromise the reputation of HCLTech, either with reference to the sites accessed or information downloaded or posted. Inappropriate use of internet includes, but is not limited to, deliberately accessing for the purpose of viewing and/or interacting with: Pornographic websites Gambling or online casinos and similar websites Websites containing details of or encouraging illegal activities Other websites that may damage HCLTech’s reputationAll access to wireless networks shall be authenticated.HCLTech password policy shall be followed for access to wireless networks.Access to corporate network resources through wireless networks shall be restricted to only corporate server access like Email, Lync etc.Use of personal hotspots is strictly prohibited within HCLTech premises.Accessing, browsing, downloading, posting, storing or forwarding material which is, or could be considered to be, obscene, offensive or of a sexual nature, whether in word, image or audio file.Accessing, browsing, downloading, posting, storing or forwarding material that is sexist, racist or could offend others because of its political nature.Accessing, browsing, downloading, posting, storing or forwarding material which may bring HCLTech or individuals into disrepute.Accessing, browsing, downloading, posting, storing or forwarding any information that is illegal, unethical or inconsistent with the company’s guidelines or policies.Accessing, browsing, downloading, posting, storing or forwarding non-public corporate information about the company or any of its clients.Using the internet for personal gain including running a private business utilizing the company internet connections or company computer equipment.Attempting to “hack” or break into any computer, system, database or network.Infecting the machines and network by visiting unwanted sites having illegal or malware content.Violating Customer or HCLTech IPR.Violating local laws of the land.Violating Customer security requirements.“Spamming” or mass postings to multiple user groups, individuals or organizations.Wilfully propagating computer viruses or other disruptive/ destructive computer programmers.Contributing to Internet newsgroups and chat rooms or similar groups without being authorized to do so.Downloading anything that constitutes an infringement of copyright, including images, music files and video in any format.The use of Peer to Peer (P2P) applications without being authorized to do so.The Company reserves the right to monitor internet usage and implement web-filtering technology to protect itself, its clients and its employees from internet misuse. Whether the Internet connection used by the employee is subject to web-filtering technology or not, it is the employees’ responsibility to comply with this Internet Usage policy.All internet access servers have the ability to record all internet access in a log detailing the originator. All employees must be aware that all access to the Internet may be intercepted, monitored and analyzed in accordance with legislation relating to such monitoring. In the event of any illegal activity, the company may be required to supply such log information to external legal authorities.

Electronic Communication

All communications using Company facilities shall be the property of HCLTech and HCLTech reserves the right to access all communications, monitor and audit networks and systems when deemed necessary.For security and network maintenance purposes, authorized individuals within HCLTech shall monitor equipment, systems and network traffic at any time.If deemed necessary, content scans shall be performed for e-mails sent/received through company systems.E-mail and internet sites that contain certain keywords such as foul language or content that may be of a sexual, pornographic or racist nature shall be blocked. In the case of an employee sending inappropriate email or attempted access to blocked internet sites, disciplinary action will be taken. Refer Internet management and Wireless management policies for further details.

Email Disclaimer

All external emails from HCLTech accounts shall carry an approved disclaimer.All users shall have an appropriate signature attached to or inline in the email which is in the format specified and approved by the HCLTech Marketing team.Individuals using the Information Assets and Information Systems owned/ managed by GIT shall be responsible to use them in a way that is: Lawful In compliance with HCLTech policy Consistent with the purposes for which they were intendedInappropriate use of Information Assets and Information Systems owned/ managed by GIT exposes to a number of security, privacy and litigation risks. In order to mitigate these risks, the following activities must be prohibited: Attempting to defeat or circumvent any security measures, controls or record-keeping systems. Attempting to gain unauthorized access to restricted areas or files. Tampering with any protections or restrictions placed on the records or system. Using the system for defamatory, harassing, threatening or obscene communications. Using the system in a manner that directly or indirectly interferes with the rights of others or deprives others of the ability to use the system.At a minimum, users are responsible and shall be held accountable for: knowing and complying with policies, processes and standards relating to the use of Information assets and systems. Safeguarding the integrity and confidentiality of information as outlined in policies. Creating, accessing, using and disposing of information based on its classification.Monitor, record and audit the use of systems and equipment: For security and network maintenance purposes To ensure effective operation of the system For any other reasonable purpose related to the general performance of the system or equipment

Email Archival

The Company may archive all email messages (internal and external) irrespective of their content and store these messages in an archive.The email archival shall be in accordance with GIT Email policy.

Prohibited Activities/Use/Communications

The following activities are prohibited for the users of HCLTech information resources. Certain authorized employees may be exempted from some of these restrictions if they are required to perform a particular activity during the course of their legitimate job responsibilities (e.g. systems administration staff may have a need to disable the network access of a host if that host is disrupting production services). The conduct of any of the activities listed below will be viewed by the Company as misconduct.

Engaging in any illegal activity (including gambling) while utilizing Company information systems.Violating the rights of any pers person or Company protected by copyright, trade secret, patent or other intellectual property, or similar laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the installation or distribution of "pirated" or other software products that are not appropriately licensed for use by HCLTech.Copying copyrighted material without authorization including, but not limited to, digitization and distribution of photographs from magazines, books or other copyrighted sources, copyrighted music or install any copyrighted software for which HCLTech or the end user does not have an active license.Introduction of malicious programs into the network or server (e.g. viruses, worms, Trojan horses, email bombs, etc.) or use the Company's information systems to transmit malicious programs to other parties.Download and Installation of unauthorized and (or) unlicensed software onto HCLTech systems.Hacking into or obtaining access to any systems or accounts that is not permitted (including systems or accounts outside of the Company) or attempt to do the same or otherwise breach or attempt to breach any computer or network security measures.Transmitting (or attempt to transmit) user names, passwords or other information related to the security of the Company's information systems to third parties.Using the Company information systems to download, transmit, distribute or process any material which may be considered to be offensive including, without limitation, material which is or may be considered to be racist or sexist, or otherwise discriminatory or to amount to harassment, victimization or bullying or otherwise to be potentially offensive, upsetting or derogatory to any group or individual or which may be considered to be pornographic, obscene or indecent (in all cases, even if you do not personally consider it to be so).Sending or forwarding threatening, harassing or abusive messages, or any messages that may be construed by the recipient as such, as a result of the language used, frequency of messages received or size of message, font or typeface used (e.g. capitals may be perceived as "shouting" when used in an email) or otherwise.Making fraudulent offers of products, items, or services originating from any HCLTech account.Carrying out or assisting others in carrying out any type of port scan or security scan.Executing any form of network monitoring which will intercept data not intended for the employee's host, unless this activity is a part of the employee's normal job/duty.Providing information about, or lists of, HCLTech employees to parties outside the Company.Loading, downloading, sending, storing, printing or receiving without reporting, offensive, obscene, indecent or defamatory material including any sexual material such as sexually explicit images, messages or cartoons and any material which amounts to harassment or discrimination on the grounds of race, sex or disability.Loading, downloading, sending, storing, printing or receiving without deleting, games, jokes, greeting cards, chain letters, executables, non-work related videos and pictures.Using another User's login ID and password.Changing the configuration of your hardware or software without the prior approval from IT Department except for cosmetic changes such as color, font, and resolution or display output device.Sending or forwarding: Non-business related messages to large numbers of newsgroups e.g. joke, sale items etc. Any material, commentary, opinion or view to any third party which may be defamatory or which may lead to legal proceedings being issued against the CompanySending email or other electronic communication that attempts to hide the identity of the sender or represent the sender as someone else or maliciously amend messages received before forwarding that message on to another party.Revealing own account password to others or allow use of your account by others. This includes family and other household members when work is being done at home.Using or forging email header, footer or disclaimer information for inappropriate or non-business related activitiesUsing the Company information systems for your own personal financial gain or for the financial or business advancement of any third party.Posting any information of any kind (including gossip, personal opinions, jokes etc.) regarding the Company to any external bulletin board on the Internet.Participating in or passing on to any other person any form of chain letter. Any such mail will be deleted as soon as it is received and opened.Monitoring or intercepting files or electronic communications of other employees or read, delete, or copy the contents of another person's email mailbox without their consent or appropriate authority.Using the email system for personal e-mail subscriptions for non-business activities (e.g. daily joke sites).

Reporting of Security Breaches

Users shall inform the security helpdesk of any communication, system problem or other circumstance that may indicate a breach of security or other risk to the integrity of the Company's information system (Refer: Incident Management Policy).Users shall not circumvent user authentication or security of any host, network or account.

Reporting Procedure on Discovery of Policy Violation

To comply with the Acceptable Systems Use Policy users shall follow the below reporting procedure. Failure to report a Policy violation may result in disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.

Users who

Must

Receive or access Material which is offensive, obscene, indecent or defamatory, including any sexual material or any material which amounts to harassment or discrimination on the grounds of race, sex or disability

Inform the local Human Resources Representative
Receive or access any material, which triggers the computer virus alert software

Raise an information security incident

Receive or access electronic games, jokes, greeting cards, chain letters, executables, non-work related videos and pictures

Immediately delete such items without forwarding on to other parties.

Non Compliance

Non-compliance with this policy may result in:

Denial or removal of access privileges to HCLTech information systemsDisciplinary including penaltiesCivil litigation and/or criminal prosecution under applicable national and federal statutes

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

2. Customer Project Management Policy

This policy is applicable for services rendered by GIT PMO to all entities of HCLTech.

The objective of GIT PMO Customer project management is to provide a standardized reference framework for GIT to deliver cost optimized IT solutions with the help of domain SMEs/Verticals’ teams.

Service Requirements:

The BAG/Sales/Delivery team(s) shall ensure that a duly filled Business Requirements Sheet (BRS)is shared as mandatory pre-requisites with the project managerPMO shall communicate the business requirements to all GIT tracksEach domain owner shall share a list of respective standard services to GIT PMO.

Solution Design:

A High-Level-Design (HLD) solution and costing model shall be agreed and validated with all domain SPOCs before sharing the consolidated version with the BAG/Sales/Delivery team(s)The BAG/Sales/Delivery team(s) shall provide sign-off on the risks and consolidated solution design shared by the Project ManagerWhere-ever required, the approvals shall be provided within 5 days, the document shall be considered as approved.

Project Planning:

Project Manager shall communicate the approved project plan to all stakeholders

Testing:

A pre-UAT (User Acceptance Testing) of the customer solution shall be conducted with the assistance of respective GIT track’s subject matter expertsDelivery/Sales/BAG team shall sign off the UAT before the OMC/ODC goes in production mode

Reporting:

Post successful UAT, the hand-over documentation shall be shared by the domain SPOC with their respective operations teamsGIT support shall be provided to the customer as per the agreed OLA (Operational Level Agreement). Additional (non- standard) service support shall be provided as agreed with the customer

Closure:

GIT PMO shall decide the implementation success for the project and send official notification to Business

Reporting & Archival:

GIT PMO shall maintain a list of all projects undertakenAll project-related documentation shall be recorded and archived as per the data retention policy

Exception Management:

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

3. Email Management Policy

This policy applies to all users of the HCLTech electronic mail (e-mail) system irrespective of the location and mode of accessing.

Includes: Email ID provided and managed by GIT

Excludes: Email ID provided and managed by Client

The objective of this policy is to ensure use of HCLTech's email system and make users aware of what HCLTech deems as acceptable and unacceptable use of its email system. HCLTech reserves the right to amend this policy at its discretion. In case of amendments, users will be informed appropriately.

Email Use:

The following rules shall be strictly adhered to:

Users shall not send or forward emails containing libelous, defamatory, offensive, racist or obscene remarks. If a user receives an e-mail of this nature, he/ she must promptly notify DOTCOM Team (DOTCOMsupport@hcl.com). Users shall not forward a message without acquiring permission from the sender Users shall not send unsolicited email messages Users shall not forge or attempt to forge email messages Users shall not send email messages using another person's email account Users shall not copy a message or attachment belonging to another user without permission of the originator Users shall not disguise or attempt to disguise their identity when sending e-mails

All email accounts maintained on HCLTech email systems shall be the property of HCLTech. Passwords shall not be given to other people and shall be changed as per GIT Password Policy. 

Email Sending Size Limit:

Incoming e-mail size along with attachment, header and message body size limit shall be 35 MB for all HCLTech employees Outgoing e-mail (public domains) attachment size limit shall be 256 KB for all HCLTech employees as a default Exception approval shall be sought for increasing the limit for outgoing to public domain e-mail attachment size. Maximum of 50 attachments with the combined limit 20MB only shall be allowed to be sent in a single e-mail. All HCLTech email users shall be allowed to send and receive up-to 35MB limit for communication within HCLTech and outside HCLTech except public domains where the above policy of 256 KB will be applied 

Maximum Recipient Limit:

Employees shall have the provision to send e-mail to multiple-recipients in a single e-mail on the basis of their employee band. One DL shall be counted as a single recipient 

Email Gateway Security Policies:

An e-mail shall get rejected/ quarantined on the incoming gateways if:

The total e-mail size is more than 20MB The e-mail carries any of the below mentioned file extension types as an attachment:
'wav' or 'iso' or 'docm' or 'torrent' or 'msi' or 'dll' or 'sct' or 'jse' or 'js' or 'ins' or 'crt' or 'ovl' or 'mpeg' or 'wmv' or 'wsh' or 'wsf' or 'wsc' or 'vbs' or 'vbe' or 'vb' or 'url' or 'sys' or 'shs' or 'shb' or 'scr' or 'reg' or 'pif' or 'pcd' or 'mst' or 'msp' or 'msc' or 'mde' or 'mdb' or 'lnk' or 'isp' or 'inf' or 'hta' or 'hlp' or 'exe' or 'drv' or 'cpl' or 'com' or 'cmd' or 'chm' or 'bin' or 'bat' or 'bas' or 'adp' or 'ade' E-mail forwarding to any non-HCLTech.IN/HCL.com email address shall be blocked There shall be no notification sent to recipient in case of spam E-mails with same sender and recipient id shall get bounced The attachments of rejected/ quarantined e-mails shall get stripped off and will be replaced with a ".txt" file stating that mail has got blocked on the gateway. An alert notification mail (Postmaster mail) shall be sent to the recipient HCLTech shall use TLS certificates on public SMTP mail gateways on service request basis for secure email transaction 

Email services on Mobile devices:

Email services on mobile devices shall be provided as per GIT MDM Policy 

Email  security:

All incoming mails on the official e-mail systems shall be scanned for viruses. The e-mail system must be equipped with a spam filter and content scanning software. All incoming e-mails shall be scanned for spam and abusive / offensive content. HCLTech emails via outlook client should be accessible only on HCLTech SOE workstations configured on HCLTech domain; And on mobile outlook client via MAM OWA should be used from non HCLTech SOE devices by HCLTech domain users to access HCLTech mails (like: client, home, public machines) Any exception to above shall be granted basis valid business justification and approval. 

Distribution List:

Dynamic or Static DL shall be created based on the internal qualifying logic defined for DL creation Approval from Internal Communications team shall be sought over email before creating Dynamic DLs 

Group Naming and Descriptions:

Group names and attributes such as description, additional information and email id shall be in accordance with the Naming convention policy and process 

DL Administration:

Addition & Deletion of members shall be performed by the DL owner (or) delegated member of the business team on approval of the DL owner for static DLs In case of ownership transfer the current DL owner can do it using self-service DL management portal 

Mail Access:

Access to send mails to the DL shall be restricted to only members of the DL In case the DL needs to have access to receive emails from internet (external DL), GIT shall ensure that the DL is being monitored by email spam filter All email communication shall be encrypted in accordance with Encryption policy and process 

Personal Use:

The Company provided e-mail access is intended to be for business use only. All e-mail messages shall be considered as records HCLTech reserves the right to inspect/audit at any point of time and there shall be no expectation of personal privacy Incidental and occasional personal use of official e-mail system is permitted. However, information and messages stored in these systems shall be treated in the same manner as business-related information and may be archived, monitored, or revealed to relevant authorities (if required) 

Email Footer:

All external outgoing internet e-mails sent through official e-mail systems shall carry an automatic appropriate disclaimer, approved by the legal department, in the footer 

Open Relay:

Open relay shall be blocked for all users and allowed for application servers. Unauthenticated relay of email shall not be allowed

SystemMonitoring:

Employee e-mails shall be monitored without prior notification if HCLTech deems this necessary. If there is evidence that employees are not adhering to the guidelines set out in this policy, HCLTech reserves the right to take disciplinary action, including termination and/or legal action

Archival:

Emails are archived for all employees with band of E1.2 and above. Email archival shall not be done for third-party users (irrespective of the designation)

Retention Period:

All archived emails shall be retained as per the data retention policy. Mails shall be purged automatically once retention period expires.

Archival location:

All the emails shall be archived at Noida location for India users and at USA for GEO users.

Retention Scope:

A copy of all emails that are supposed to be archived (To/from users under scope of the policy) shall be sent to an archival system on real time basis. It may include MS teams Conversations, Contacts and Calendars

Archived Emails Retrieval:

Access to archived emails shall only be granted after seeking appropriate approvals. In legal cases where an employee needs to access someone else's archived emails, regional HR head and IT head approval shall be required.

For Office 365 users, the emails shall be archived in cloud itself Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

4. Incident Management Policy

This policy is applicable to all IT infrastructure owned and managed by GIT

Excludes:

All IT Infrastructure owned / managed by Client HCLTech Executive Incident Management (HEIM) Process covering only "C" Band Employees"

The Incident Management policy defines the organization's intent related to detection and reporting of incidents relating to IT operations and information security. The objective of the policy is to ensure that incidents are reported in time to the appropriate authorities and corrective actions are taken immediately to avoid the recurrence of such events in future.

Reporting:

An incident can be raised by an employee via any of the below mentioned methods:

ITSM tool
Web 
Phone call
Email
Walk In
Automated Events
Logging:

HCLTech shall ensure that all incidents are recorded in a central repository. At minimum the repository shall capture following details related to an incident:

Unique reference number Incident classification Incident description Date /time recorded Name of person recording incident. Incidents status Closure category

Incident Handling:

HCLTech shall classify Incidents into different severity level based on the business impact and urgency of the incident

Incident urgency is categorized as per below:
Urgency

Description

Examples

1 – High

Damage caused by incident increases rapidly with timeNature of work is highly time sensitive	
Incidents impacting client delivery

2 – Medium

Damage caused by the incident increases considerably with time
Incidents resulting in productivity loss

3 – Low

Damage caused by the incident does not increase/ increases minimally with timeNature of work is not time sensitive	
Incidents where work around is feasible

 

Incident impact is categorized as per below:
Urgency

Description

Examples

1 - High

Incidents leading to service impact with complete outage to business (one or more). And any incidents impacting multiple delivery locations /clients

Services like Email, Firewall, Router, Internet, Major Switch Problems affecting users

2 - Medium

Incidents that result in minor service fluctuations during the outage window or minimal downtime– not exceeding 1 hour

Issues with a team or department like printer problem any department specific server, e.g. IS Apps server etc

3 - Low

No outage is likely to be experienced by business/delivery, however single/ few users may be impacted

Any desktop/laptop related incident like hardware/ software problem.

Incident priority is categorized as per below:
Urgency/Impact

1 - High

2 - Medium

3 - Low

1 (High)

P1 (Critical Incidents - Priority 1 and Priority 2/ Reptitive)

P2 (High Priority)

P3 (Medium Priority)

2 (Medium)

P2 (High Priority)

P3 (Medium Priority)

P4 (Low Priority)

3 (Low)

P3 (Medium Priority)

P4 (Low Priority)

P4 (Low Priority)

The Incident Management process shall at a minimum cover of the following sections:
Detection, Recording & Alerting Classification & Initial Support Investigation & Diagnosis Resolution & Recovery Closure
Any activity carried out during investigation, solution identification and closure of the incident shall be logged. All critical incidents shall be reported to the CIO/ GIT-Head as and when they are logged. All staff involved in incident management shall have access to relevant information such as known errors, problem resolution and the configuration management database (CMDB). The incident shall be updated with completed status as soon as its resolution has been confirmed by the customer. Feedback shall be requested from the requestor on the overall experience. On successful closure, the known error database shall be updated with any new workaround / solution. A Service Level Agreement (SLA) based on the priority of incidents should be defined and any incidents not meeting the defined SLA shall be escalated based on a defined reporting and escalation matrix:

Priority

Response SLA

Resolution SLA

1 (Critical)

15 minutes

4 hours

2 (High)

30 minutes

6 hours

3 (Medium)

1 hour

36 hours

4 (Low)

4 hours

60 hours

Roles & Responsibilities:

HCLTech shall define roles and responsibilities for handling incidents Service Desk shall perform following tasks to expedite the process on allocation of service ticket: Accept assignment and update the status If necessary, re-evaluate the priority based on urgency and business impact Re-assign the incident to appropriate resolver within GIT/ EIS teams Keep customer/user informed of status during the life cycle

Communication:

End user shall be periodically notified of the status/ progress of the incident

Incident Escalation:

Escalation matrix shall be defined for incident escalation and resolution

Closure:

The three strike ticket closure rule shall be applicable in-case the user does not respond in-time

User shall be contacted 3 times typically on 3 alternate business days (or as agreed with customers). In-case the user does not respond then the ticket is automatically moved to cancelled or resolved status as applicable. Cancelled status shall be applicable if some additional information or clarification is required from the user while resolved status is applicable if confirmation of satisfactory resolution is required from the user. In-case user is on vacation then the first contact is applicable when he or she returns back to office. This rule shall not be applicable for VIP (Band C) users (Please refer Executive Incident Management process) The incident/service request is then closed with a status/action indicating that the request was closed under this policy (e.g. Closed no Response)

Monitoring:

Metrics for periodic measurement of the process performance should be defined and acted upon accordingly to continuously improve the process.

Information Security Incidents: 

Any incidents involving security risks shall be handled in accordance with the Security Incident Response process

Problem Management:

A problem management process shall be followed for Priority 1 and Priority2/repetitive and High incidents.
Change Management:

Request for Change (RFC) shall be raised to implement a solution in a production environment.
Exception Management:

All exceptions to this policy shall comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

5. Internet Web Access

This policy is applicable to HCLTech Employees who access internet using corporate assets and web security infrastructure

This policy defines the organization's internet access for employees by:

Defining approved uses of Web Categories within HCLTech environment Defining users' responsibility and accountability in their use of web access Preserving the integrity, confidentiality and privacy of the information within the corporate environment, utilizing the appropriate controls. Supporting the audit, legal and security concerns

Access:

All HCLTech employees are provided with default internet access (details available in process annexure) unless governed by business requirement. For getting exceptional internet access request, GIT Request fulfilment process to be followed. Additional/exceptional internet access shall be granted for maximum period of 6 months.
HCLTech shall define policies at a proxy level to block unauthorized sites. Policies are updated as needed whenever new categories/business risks are identified. Where possible, filters are employed to deny access to known Internet sites identified as "improper use". Subject to the features of the software deployed, within category specific sites required for business usage can be configured for general employee access or for specific departments or user access; when an employee attempts to access a blocked site, a denied access message will appear to the employee. Any suspicious or security/legal risky content shall be dynamically blocked as deemed fit by SIRT/Security team. All access will be based on the dynamic categorization built by proxy database provider, to ensure HCLTech assets are secured from unknown and zero-day threats. The following will be the minimum set of controls to be considered and rolled-out. All web access to employees should be provided via Proxy solution. Default web access policy shall be defined as per the approved business requirement. Allow only web protocols (http and https) access. Custom web access and other http port access must necessarily go through the risk assessment process. All Laptops (HCLTech SOE) must be loaded with Remote Filtering solution. Download of executables and compressed files shall not be permitted. Internet access shall not be allowed on servers. Cloud applications shall be allowed or denied as per cloud application access methodology. Any modification in cloud application access methodology should be approved by GIT Security head.

Inappropriate use of the Internet:

When accessing the Internet from GIT managed assets/network, it must be ensured that the service is only used in accordance with Acceptable Usage Policy.

Exception Management:

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

6. Access Management Policy

 This policy is applicable to all IT assets connected to corporate network and managed and governed by GIT. The term "IT assets" defines the total environment and includes, hardware such as servers, desktops, laptops, network devices, mobile devices, software and information. This policy is applicable to all employees of HCLTech including third party employees.

The Access Control Policy specifies the controls that shall be implemented and maintained to protect information assets against unauthorized access that poses substantial risk to the organization.

The objectives of the Access Control Policy are to:

Provide access to the information assets as per the business requirement. Prevent unauthorized access to information assets  

Access Control Policy:

Access to information assets shall be controlled, reviewed and monitored, based on business and security requirements Logical access controls shall be deployed with the principle of 'roles & responsibilities-based access authorizations' to protect information from unauthorized access User access credential (IDs and passwords) sharing shall not be permitted Account shall be locked after defined unsuccessful login attempts Tool limitations to enforce required access controls on commercial applications shall be dealt on case to case basis. Such scenarios although will not be in variance to practiced GIT policies and processes. Example: enforcement of password complexity, renaming of default account etc.

User Access Provisioning and Revocation:

There shall be a formal process for granting and revocation of user access, which shall be integral to the HR joining and exit processes, for providing and revoking end users access to business application systems, information systems, and data Disabled user credentials (IDs) shall not be re-assigned to new user. An ID freeze period of two years shall be maintained for all deleted ID's Access Rights shall be assigned to the personnel on a 'need-to-know' basis and a 'need-to-do' (minimum requirement for the functional role) basis Authorization record of all rights shall be maintained

User Access Revocation:

The access rights of employees to information and information processing facilities shall be disabled and removed upon termination of their employment, contract or agreement as per defined process or in case the access is no longer required

Third Party Access Rights:

All contract employees shall be required to adhere to the NDA clauses and HCLTech policies and processes For Vendor partners' temporary ID shall be created with restricted access to HCLTech network Access shall be granted on a 'need-to-know' basis and a 'need-to-do' (minimum requirement for the functional role) basis

User identification and authentication:

All users shall have unique user IDs. Nomenclature used for user IDs shall be such that it does not give any indication of the user's privilege level User ID must have reference of first and last name Access to all the systems on the company's network shall require authentication Two factor authentication / MFA mechanism shall be enabled to access infrastructure and applications

Generic IDs:

All generic IDs must have a primary and secondary owner All requests for Generic ID's must be supported by appropriate business case All generic user IDs shall be allocated only for a limited time duration and continued access shall require additional approvals in accordance with the Exception management policy and process All generic user IDs shall be reconciled quarterly

Management of Privileged Access Rights:

All Privilege IDs shall be managed in accordance to Privilege Management Policy

VPN / Remote Access:

Remote access privileges shall be given in accordance with the Remote access management policy and process

Wireless Access:

Corporate WiFi access shall be provided by default to all employees / contractual employees Guest / Premium Wireless access shall be given in accordance with the Wireless access management policy and process.

Review of User Access Rights:

All user accounts shall be reconciled with the HR records for existence of employee on pay rolls and with respective managers for required level of access on a monthly basis All access rights shall be appropriately reviewed and amended where required as indicated by the user access review process (e.g. employee role-change, employee resignation etc.)

Audit Trails:

Audit trails shall be maintained for all requests for addition, modification or deletion of user accounts and access rights All audit logs shall be retained as per the organization's data retention policy

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

7. Asset Management Policy

Includes:

This policy is applicable to all information assets used/owned/ managed by GIT which includes, but not limited to, the following:
Workstations/Laptops/Desktops; Servers; Printers and Scanners USB Drives and external hard drives Consumables IT cables and connectors; Other Network infrastructure; Hardcopy and softcopy documents containing organization/business related information. This policy should be considered as an addendum to the HCLTech's organizational Asset Management Policy defined at a corporate level.

Excludes:

This policy is not applicable for client provided assets Customer owned assets will be managed as per the agreed services contract All cables, printer cartridges, and other IT consumables

The objective of asset management policy is to govern the management of Information assets used and/or owned by HCLTech to ensure that they are managed, controlled, safeguarded and used in an efficient and effective manner.

Asset Management:

Every employee of HCLTech shall be allocated one EUC Asset All laptop requests shall be raised in service management tool except resale and CPS built-in (Leased in) Laptops which shall be procured through CAPEX only GIT shall review standard configuration periodically with vendor
Two or more EUC Asset shall be assigned to users with business justification from L4 Head GIT Logistics team shall allocate laptops/ desktops as per specific service request approvals

Laptop Category

E3 & Below

E4 & E5

E6 & above

E9 & above

The standard

Self

Self

NA

NA

Non-standard

L4 Head

L4 Head

L4 Head

NA

Light weight (i7/8GB/256SSD)

NA

NA

Self

NA

IT approved high-end/special models

NA

NA

NA

Self

Medical advised light-weight laptops shall require HR manager's approval. Laptop model under this category shall be decided by GIT User shall provide client / business justification along with service request approval, in case he/she requires any specific model other than standard model All laptops shall be owned by GIT and shall be allocated to the employees on monthly rental basis. Rental of laptops will be based on its model and configurations and PO value Rental shall not be applicable for the laptops which are more than 4 years of age or issued on temporary standby mode If laptop is not collected within 1 week of delivery notification, then minimum 3 months rental shall be charged to user's project WBS and cost centre In case Laptop is found physically broken then the repairing cost shall be charged to respective project Any asset assigned to the user shall have an associated cost assigned as well and the same shall be recovered from the user in case the asset is lost or damaged by the user. If the laptop is beyond repair or repair cost is higher than the depreciated cost, then the remaining rental shall be charged to Project in one go considering 4 years as laptop life In case laptop is lost and stolen, user must submit FIR and NTR (Non traceable report). Remaining rental shall be charged to project and other laptop shall be issued to user with additional cost as rental per month User must submit the EUC asset to GIT while exiting In case of no response from exiting employee against collection reminder or not returned the company provided IT asset(s) for more than 15 days from his / her Last Working Day (LWD) with HCL, GIT will inform legal to take appropriate action for applicable country in Annexure-A. For EUC asset upgradation, user shall open service request in service management tool and respective project shall bear the additional cost In case of data recovery from the laptop, user has to provide L4 approval and Project has to bear the cost. Additionally, user will be charged Hard-disk cost as it will be tampered while recovery and will not be considered under warranty HCLTech owned and approved data cards shall be allowed on laptops / desktops All allocated laptops shall reflect in asset management tool for gate pass issuance. In addition to laptop gate pass hardcopy, User shall also show laptop gate pass on his / her mobile application Temporary Laptops issued for usage in Export Controlled regions shall comply with the GIT Asset management policy and process User shall acknowledge the asset through their myhcl.com account on receipt of the asset. Failure to do so will attract auto- block of user account on myhcl.com All information assets – electronic or physical – shall be labeled appropriately as per the information classification policy stated in the IT Security Management Policy and Naming Conventions Policy TP resource's laptop allocation will be mapped to his RM in the system, along with employee details in contract employee" field. Request for Non specified HCLTech model should be approved by Business L4 Head with business justification and attached in the Remedy ticket. Future Bulk Request will be approved by GBO Finance & Business L4 L2 approval. All customer specific model laptop request, should be based on final solution documents or final SOW An inventory of assets will be maintained by the Asset Class owners for each asset identified. Conversely, the asset owners will be identified for all the assets and they will be responsible for successful execution, tracking and completion of the following activities at the minimum
Maintaining the asset; Safeguarding the asset and asset documentation; Classifying the assets as per the Information Classification Policy; Renew any contracts/ agreements/ licenses associated with the asset at required intervals; Conducting periodic reviews to ensure compliance to the organization's policies and processes; Safeguarding all media (other storage media used to install the software / store data) associated with the asset; Conducting annual risk and criticality assessment for all assets assigned to them Maintaining all original manuals and reference documentation (if any)

Information Accountability:

The owner of the Information Asset will be accountable for the manner in which the information is used, retained, handled and disposed during the information's life-cycle

Owner and Custodian:

GIT Head will be the default owner and custodian for all IT hardware and software assets (newly purchased or not-in- use) on behalf of HCLTech for conducting its business; GIT Head himself or his designated team members may assign the ownership and custodianship to different employees at different times for all in-use IT Hardware and Software assets to enable smooth business operations

Software Asset Management Software Assets:

All software required for business purpose shall be purchased and managed as per the GIT Software Asset Management Policy and Process.

Hardware Asset Management Responsibilities:

The asset owner will identify the custodian for the asset who will be responsible for the following activities:

Follow the instructions of owners, operate systems on behalf of owners to serve users authorized by owners; Define the technical options, such as information criticality categories, and permit owners to select the appropriate option for their information; Define information systems architectures and provide technical consulting assistance to owners so that information systems can be built and run to optimally meet business objectives; If requested, provide reports to owners about information system operations and information security issues; and Safeguard the information in their possession, including implementing access control systems to prevent inappropriate disclosure, and developing, documenting, and testing information systems contingency plans.

Asset Purchase:

GIT shall initiate purchase of IT assets upon receiving request or identified as requirement by raising a formal request and following the capex approval mechanism OEM warranty of IT assets at the time of purchase shall be formally decided for execution by GIT head.

Asset Bonding and De-Bonding:

At special notified zones where Asset Bonding and De-Bonding is required, the Admin team and IT team should ensure that such assets are notified to the Customs Officer prior to bringing any asset inside the HCLTech Premises.

Asset GRN:

GIT team should ensure that all IT assets have a GRN before they are put into service delivery GIT team shall be responsible to update the IT/ Project Asset Inventory at the time of inventory based on who requested for the asset (i.e. GIT or a specific project) For assets received directly by the indenter, GRN shall be done basis user confirmation.

Asset Maintenance:

All equipment repairs and movements must follow the stated Change Management, Request Fulfilment, and Incident Management Policies and Processes, as applicable; Any equipment repair observed by employees on IT Hardware will be reported to the GIT department; Any equipment repair observed by employees on building infrastructure related equipment will be reported to the Administration; In the event of a repair wherein the equipment needs to be sent off-premises, appropriate authorization will be taken from supervisor and IT / Admin Manager; On return of equipment, the IT / Project team will ensure that the equipment is tested before installing the same in the work environment; The Maintenance record will be updated by the IT / Admin / Project department about the repair call including the resolution mechanism; GIT Team must ensure that all domain assets are under AMC at all times. In case an asset goes out of AMC, then GIT shall ensure that a fresh AMC is purchased subject to management decision

Problem Management:

The IT / Admin department will be responsible for recording the problem, prioritizing the requests and reporting the same based on the severity level; For critical servers and equipment, resolution will be performed within the premises and defective item will be sent back. In case the equipment is required to be moved out of the premises, an approval must be taken from the Asset Owner.

Encryption:

Only those removable storage media should be assigned to end-user which support encryption

Asset Disposal:

Only assets which are ready for disposal shall be degaussed/destroyed. Any asset will only be disposed-off after obtaining the necessary approvals from the GIT Track Head, BU Head, GIT Head, or CFO, as applicable. Any IT Asset reaching its end-of-life as per OEM shall be enlisted for Tech Refresh after appropriate assessment and management approval. Project assets shall be kept segregated from the HCLTech GIT assets through appropriate labelling of the project assets. All assets marked for disposal or while not-in-use state (due to - awaiting deployment, dysfunctional, awaiting RTV etc.) shall be moved to the IT or Project Asset.

Asset Tech-Refresh:

Domain Assets shall be assessed for Tech-Refresh, at a minimum, 5 years from the date of purchase and thereafter every 2 years or as per specific business request or in case of end of support/end of life. The assets to be considered for Tech-Refresh shall be:

Servers Printers & scanners Network Storage Devices (NAS, SAN) Network Devices (routers, switches, etc.) Security Devices (IPS, Firewalls etc.) Telecom Devices (gateways, dialers, Avaya devices etc.)

Refresh request can be initiated post 4 years (minimum) of age while considering the health of Laptop. IT will not change any laptop which is less than 4 years old. Any exception will be approved by IT Ops Head based on condition of laptop, repeated Remedy evidences or business justification and will require L2 head approval. Rental will be charged for new laptop and existing laptop (until it is reallocated).

Any IT Asset reaching its end-of-support (EOS) from OEM where OS is embedded in hardware (appliances and network devices) shall be refreshed. Any IT Asset reaching its end-of-support (EOS) from OEM where bare metal hardware is there, can be enlisted for approved third party AMC support.

Asset Surrender:

All company provided IT assets must be returned back by employee before leaving the organization. A legal action ( as per country's law) may be taken against separating employee in case asset do not come back to HCLTech by last working day.
GIT Team will initiate formatting (data erase) of the IT asset in possession of the employee post the Last Working Day to avoid any data leakages User must return the laptop if he / she is moving to different entity or different country/zone In case laptop is bonded, then laptop must be returned before leaving the country location within the same country.

Asset Monitoring:

All assets should be added to the respective asset class monitoring tools upon inclusion into the HCLTech network GIT team should conduct an annual (at a minimum) hardware asset verification and reconciliation exercise to keep the asset inventory updated. The scope of the exercise should ensure that the following are updated for each asset: Asset Owner, Asset Custodian, Asset Location, Asset Label, Asset assignment date, Asset Serial Number, Asset State (In-use/Not-in- use/Disposed), etc. GIT Track Logistics Team shall be responsible for the on-going updating of and maintaining of the IT and Project Asset Register

Asset Rental:

In case HCLTech has to take any IT assets on rent, then the cost of the rent and any associated maintenance cost for the asset will be allocated to the project for which the expense is borne; The requested desktop shall be issued for a minimum period of 1 day, with a minimum chargeback for 1 month GIT shall chargeback the rental cost of desktop to the end user's department. The details of the charge back amount shall be shared with Finance.

Desktop/ Laptop Allocation:

Laptops will be provided to employees as per the Desktop/ Laptop Management Policy. Desktop/ Laptop will only be allocated to those employees who have been allocated a desk by the Admin team. Consequently, employees shall not move or transfer assets without appropriate approvals.

Printers (Cabin & Heavy Duty/ODC):

E9+ band users are eligible for Cabin Printers on request basis. Common Area/Shared printers – Device with Secure PIN only allowed. User's should use GIT managed printers stationed at common area . (reference Access Management Policy).

Any exception to above shall be approved by RM Service Owner->L4 L2 
IT Consumables:

GIT logistic should initiate the purchase of records, monitor usage, and dispose-off all IT consumables.
IT consumables shall be issued through a request raised in the Service Management tool or via specific CAPEX requests Printers Access: No default printer access is provided to users up to E8. Access shall be enabled on request basis with appropriate business justification and approval for maximum duration of 365 days (reference exception management policy). E0 to E3, RM and L4 approval shall be required E4 to E8, self-approval shall be required E9 and above, by default printer access shall be provided Scope of the above shall be only for HCLTech domain users.


Export Control (EC) Regulations:
Assets that are deployed on projects requiring Export Control regulations shall be subject to the following additional policies. In case of a conflict with any other policy statement, the below policies shall supersede: Projects where export control regulations apply shall only deploy printers capable of secured printing. For employees who require to travel through export-controlled regions, a separate temporary laptop shall be assigned from the temporary laptop pool. Third-Party (TP) vendors shall not be allowed to take EC assets (laptops/ desktops/ printers/ storage devices/ etc.) outside the HCLTech facility. Any TP vendor providing backup tape movement facility shall be required to submit a copy of its TAA to local HCLTech Admin team. All backup tapes used for EC shall be encrypted as per the Encryption Management Policy and Process. If in case TAA for HCLTech shall expire, then all the data on the backup tapes used for EC shall be purged at least two months prior to the expiry date.

Media Management:

As a policy, users are not allowed to use removable storage media inside the HCLTech's environment. If a user is granted permission to use removable storage media, then he or she should adhere to the following requirements: Only encrypted removable storage media should be used for storing any HCLTech related data. Only removable storage media issued by the HCLTech IT Helpdesk should be used for connecting to HCLTech workstations, desktops, laptops and servers and any other device (containing HCLTech data) supporting removable storage media. Users are responsible for protection of Removable Media assigned to them and must ensure its storage under lock and key in their absence. Users must immediately inform the IT Department in case a removable hard disk failure occu along with the sensitivity of information stored on hard disk. In case of any damage to hard disk, IT Department will try to recover data and replace the hard disk. Users must immediately inform the IT Helpdesk and raise an incident ticket in case of loss of the removable media device. Storage Media shall be formatted/factory-reset (as applicable) under following conditions: Disposal of old Desktop / Laptops or servers. Movement of Desktop / Laptops from one process to other; and Issuing Desktop or laptop to new users. Return of rental equipment Records of disposal, including time of destruction, name of person who destroyed it and means of disposal will be maintained by the IT & Admin department. All hard disks must be de-gaussed before disposal. Physical security team should be informed prior to arrival of equipment at locations. Information processing equipment, information, storage media or software will not be taken off-site without prior authorization from the asset owners or Departmental Head. Users who have authority to permit removal of assets will be clearly identified. All computer storage media (excluding USB storage media) leaving HCLTech will be accompanied by an authorized gate- pass and will be logged at designated entry/exit points. Gate-passes will clearly indicate if the asset is non-returnable. For all other types of assets time limits for removal will be indicated and returns checked for compliance. Non-compliance must be reported to the Admin Department and the Asset Owner. IT / Admin / Project department will maintain a record of the equipment sent off-premises for repair. At a minimum the following details will be entered in the Outgoing Materials Register / Gate pass: OEM and Model number Equipment Serial number; Reason for equipment to be sent off-premises; Authorization from approved signatory; and Vendor details including contact name, address and telephone number. The Administration Department will be responsible for processing a Returnable Gate Pass for the equipment. The IT Helpdesk is responsible for communicating with the vendor for all "Returnable" equipment. The gate pass will be tracked by the office security personnel; Equipment will be disposed (transferred or scrapped) if: The equipment has reached end of life; As declared by OEM The equipment does not suit the environment. Not meeting Business requirement Repeated Technical / Performance issues Technology obsolescence (triggered from OS and Application compatibility perspective) Critical infrastructure equipment which needs to be disposed-off such as servers, network security equipment etc. will be approved with valid justification by Asset Owner, BU Head, GIT Head or Finance Head as applicable. Any information that resides in the asset will be removed from the equipment before disposal/transfer/scrapping The list of equipment, which are being disposed, will be removed or deleted from Asset list as well as from finance register books List of equipment disposed/ transferred/ scrapped will be maintained separately by the IT logistics.

Access Management:

All access requests for asset management tools shall be handled as per the Access Management Policy and Process

Change Management:

All change requests for assets shall be handled as per the Change Management Policy and Process

Incident Management:

All incident tickets regarding the assets shall be handled as per the Incident Management Policy and Process

Problem Management:

All problem tickets regarding the assets shall be handled as per the Problem Management Policy and Process

SOE Deployment:

All SOE deployment requests shall be handled as per the Release and Deployment Management Policy and Process

Capex Requests:

All capex requests for the procurement of new assets shall be handled as per the Capex policy and process defined by the Finance team

Supplier Management:

All IT vendor selections and negotiations etc. related aspects shall be handled as per the GIT Supplier Management Policy and Process

Request Fulfilment:

All service requests shall be fulfilled as per the Request Fulfilment policy and process

Configuration Management:

All configuration management requests shall be handled as per the Configuration Management Policy and Process

Exception Management:

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

8. Cloud Management Policy

This policy applies to Cloud infrastructure and Virtual Machine services provided by HCLTech GIT.

The objective of this policy is to ensure appropriate usage of HCLTech's Cloud infrastructure and Virtual Machine services. 

Cloud Service Deployment:

Cloud services & resources shall be deployed in accordance with approved Cloud Reference Architecture. Security assessment shall be performed by GIS before deployment of any new Cloud offerings. 

Service Availability:

Cloud and virtual services shall be extended to HCLTech internal customers. Cloud Services shall only be offered for Windows OS and LINUX Operating Systems with n-1 version (n is current version published). 

Cloud Provisioning, De-Provisioning & Service Renewal:

A service request shall be raised on GIT Cloud Portal for cloud provisioning, de-provisioning, service renewal and data migration requests. A process shall be defined for cloud provisioning, de-provisioning, service renewal, data migration. 

Backup:

Backup restoration testing shall be performed in accordance with the Backup Management policy and process. Prior to restoring the backup image in production, all latest patches shall be applied on the virtual machine. 

SOE Image Updates:

Windows 'Golden images' (SOE Image) shall be updated by Patch Team on monthly basis and VM Operations team apply the updates to virtual Infra. LINUX 'Golden images' shall be updated on quaterly basis by UNIX team. Cloud Services shall only be offered for Windows OS and RHEL Operating Systems with n-1 version (n is current version published). Which will be patched as per Patch Management policy and process? 

File Sharing:

File sharing shall not be supported over the cloud servers except for Noida and Bangalore where firewall has been enabled Cloud FTP server shall be used to migrate data to cloud server and vice versa 

Access:

Jump hosts/ privilege access management (PAM) solution shall be used for any access using accounts with full or privileged administrative access to VMs that are hosted in cloud 

Cloud Services Capacity Management:

Autoscaling & auto-tiering should be configured wherever possible. Cloud services & resources consumption, utilization levels and thresholds shall be identified on quarterly basis for optimal utilization. Cloud services and resources shall be rightsized (Upgrade, Downgrade or Delete) based on the utilization levels. Cloud services shall be stopped if services are not used optimally.

Change Management:

All changes to cloud services & resources shall be performed in accordance with Change management policy and process.

Software Asset Management:

All VMs and software installed shall be licensed and issued in accordance with software asset management policy and process Users shall declare the VMs on TARMAC again in case a non-compliant software is detected on their respective VM

Compliance to IT Baseline Controls:

VM shall have all applicable ITBL controls deployed as defined by GIT Security policy. HCL SOE shall be used for creating VM on Cloud. Non-HCL SOE / Customized OS image shall be approved by GIS team before deployment. All patching activities shall be performed in accordance with the Patch management policy and process. All windows VMs shall be equipped with antivirus solution and continuously monitored for malwares. Service owner shall be responsible for closing vulnerabilities in the applications deployed in the VMs.
Service owner shall provide L4 approval for risk acceptation in case the vulnerability is not closed within SLA.

Incident/Problem Management:

All functional/technical issues shall be reported in accordance with the Incident/Problem management policy and process

Service Expiry:

Auto Notification should be sent to user, when near to expiration All VMs shall be kept in power-off mode for a period of 15 days after service period expiry. In case the owner does not initiate request for renewal of service within 15 days of expiry, GIT Cloud management team shall delete the VM

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

9. Data Retention PolicyThis policy document applies to all HCLTech staff responsible for retention of organizational data, as defined by GIT; This policy is to looked at in conjunction with the Organizational Log Management Policy and HCLTech InfoSec Information Classification and Handling Policy

The purpose of this policy is to define GIT specific data retention practices.

HCLTech GIT is committed to protecting the security of data through the preservation ofConfidentiality: protection from unauthorized accessIntegrity: ensuring accuracy and completeness of information throughout the information lifecycleAvailability: ensuring availability of information to authorized users All information records shall be stored as per the Information Classification and Handling Policy All PII, PFI and PHI retained as part of the various database in the HCLTech environment shall be subject to the policy requirements documented as part of the HCLTech's Privacy Policy.

Records Retention:

Policies/Process/Work-Instructions: Previous versions of policies/ process/ work instruction documentation shall be archived for a period of one year
Supplier/Vendor documents: All documentation associated with Supplier/Vendor(s) as defined under the Supplier & Vendor Management process shall be retained for a period of one year
Service Management Records (Incident tickets/Problem tickets/Change records/Service requests): All operational data created as a result of IT service management operations (e.g. Change records, incident tickets, problem tickets, service requests etc.) shall be retained for one year online and another one year data in archival modeOther Knowledge Assets: All other knowledge assets identified as per Knowledge Management process shall be retained for a period of one year

Backup Retention:

All backup tapes and records at a minimum shall be retained at the below defined frequency. Daily Backups: 14 days Weekly Backups: 3 weeks Monthly Backups: 3 months Email Retention: All archived emails shall be retained:       On-premises accounts – 5 Years Mailbox on cloud - 7 years Mails shall be purged automatically once retention period expires

Log Retention:

GIT team shall ensure that logs as defined in the Log Management policy shall be retained for a period of 365 days. GIT shall ensure that CCTV logs are retained for 30 days 

Application Logs/ Data:

For all applications owned by EIS, transaction logs and data shall be retained as per HCLTech-EIS Log Retention Policy 

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

10. Password Management Policy

This policy applies to all HCLTech employees and contractors who use Computer equipment or service owned / managed by GIT and connected to HCLTech network

Exclusions: Computer equipment or service owned / managed by client/delivery

The objective of this document is to define the activities governing access to user accounts which are controlled by an authentication mechanism utilizing unique used IDs and passwords. These authentication mechanisms ensure controlled and restricted access to the information and information systems according to the business requirements. The objective of this policy is to establish the rules for the creation, distribution, safeguarding, termination, and reclamation of the user authentication mechanisms.

Windows Domain Passwords:

Microsoft default settings shall be employed for Windows Kerberos All windows-based end-systems shall comply with the password length, complexity, expiry and associated parameters defined below:

Password Management

Requirements

Password Construct (Length & Complexity)

Min 12 char. Long. Combination of Alpha numeric and special characters.All passwords will be complex passwords and must contain at least three characters from the following four categories to meet complex password requirement:At least one character in upper case alphabets (A-Z).At least one character in lower case alphabets (a-z).At least one numeric character (0-9).At least one special character [e.g. $,!, #, %, *, &, (,), @]
Password Expiry

90 days

Reset account lockout counter

After 30 minutes

Password History

Forever on cloud (Last password cannot be used again) & on-prem last 24 passwords

Minimum password age HCLTech/ ISD/ GEO/ ASSOCIATES / CORP

0 Days

 

Compliance:

Passwords shall be mandatory for all user accounts on all networked Users shall be mandatory required to change the password at first logon Any password change shall be permitted only after successful authentication For local admin accounts operating on Windows EUC assets; system generated unique passwords shall be used for domain EUC assets

Lock-out:

Account shall be locked out after 5 continuous bad attempts made by user within 30 minutes
Any account locked out due to invalid logon attempts shall be reset by the respective local IT team (User can change password through self-service portal) Account resetting shall be in accordance to the Password management process

VPN Passwords:

RSA generated PIN and passcode shall be used to authenticate in VPN application and for VPN accessibility Network: All Network Device Access Management happens through TACACS+/RADIUS authentication server and at the back-end AD User/ID Password shall be used for access All policies that apply to AD Password Management are inherited for Network Device Access

Unix/Linux Passwords:

All Unix/Linux based end-systems/servers shall comply at the minimum with the password length, complexity, expiry and age defined in this policy

Database Passwords:

All database schemas shall comply with at the minimum the password length, complexity, expiry and age defined in this policy.

BitLocker Passwords:

BitLocker passwords shall comply at the minimum with the password length (minimum 8 characters)

Administrator/Root Accounts:

All admin/root accounts shall employ more stringent (where-ever the underlying OS permits) and complex passwords All administrators accounts shall comply with the password length, complexity, expiry and associated parameters defined below:

Password Management

Requirements

Password Construct (Length & Complexity)

Min 26 char. Long. Combination of Alpha numeric or special characters

Password Expiry

90 days

Reset account lockout counter

After Manual lockout

Password History

Last 24 password history

Account lockout

After 2 wrong attempts

The root passwords of all Unix/Linux servers shall be shared with personnel only on role/need-basis
The root passwords shall be changed every 45 days using RHDS

Use of two-factor authentication shall be ensured for users having super-user/administrator level access to system resources and should be made mandatory where access is from remote location like internet. This category includes System Administrators, Database Administrator, Network Administrator, and Firewall Administrator etc.

Confidentiality:

Password shall never be displayed in clear text or stored in readable forms Password shall only be communicated to the intended user and changed after first logon Generic/Service-Account ID passwords shall be provided to users in accordance with Access management policy and process Password sharing shall not be allowed

Default Passwords:

All default passwords (software/device/systems) shall be immediately changed upon installation

Password Storage:

System files holding the authentication information or passwords shall be encrypted in accordance with the Encryption policy to protect from unauthorized access

Password Encryption:

Passwords shall be transmitted over secure network by implementing a ticket based authentication scheme such as Kerberos.

Password Reset:

In the event a team member, who has privileged access (administrative or special privilege) on non –AD authenticated Information Systems, has resigned or is terminated, the Service Owner shall ensure that the local passwords to that privileged account are changed within 3 business days of separation.

Emergency Password:

All emergency password usage shall be in accordance with the Password management process

Service Account (Non-privilege) Passwords:

A longer, more complex password is highly recommended if the software/ operating system allows. The password complexity / criteria for system or service accounts shall be as listed below:
Password Management

Requirements

Password Construct (Length & Complexity)

Minimum 26 character long. Combination of Alpha numeric and special characters.All passwords will be complex passwords and must contain at least three characters from the following four categories to meet complex password requirement:At least one character in upper case alphabets (A-Z)At least one character in lower case alphabets (a-z)At least one numeric character (0-9)At least one special character [e.g., $, #, %, *, & (,), @]
Password Expiry

180 days

Reset Account lockout counter after

30 minutes

Password History

Last 24 password history

Account Lockout

After 2 wrong attempts

Server (Domain Joined)
Local Password Management

Requirements

Password Construct

(Length & Complexity)

Minimum 26 character long. Combination of Alpha numeric and special characters.

Password Expiry

 90 Days

Password Age

 2 Hours post authentication – Time bound Access

Endpoint (Domain Joined)
Local Password Management

Requirements

Password Construct

(Length & Complexity)

Minimum 12 character long. Combination of Alpha numeric and special characters.

Password Expiry

 90 Days

Password Age

 2 Hours post authentication

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

11. Request Fulfilment Policy

This policy is applicable to all GIT services offered by GIT to the Users (internal customers in HCLTech). It is technology, environment (platform) and tool independent.

The term service request is used as a generic description for many, varying types of request from users that are made to the IT department. Many of these service requests are actually small changes – low risk, frequently occurring, low cost, etc. The objective of Request Fulfillment is to provide users with the information about the availability of the standard services, procedures for obtaining these services, to accept and register Service Requests and directly handling them according to the urgency.

This document covers addressing service requests from the users through the following:

To provide a channel for users to request and receive standard services for which a pre-defined approval and qualification process exists. To provide information to the users and customers about the availability of services and the procedure for obtaining them. To source and deliver components of requested standard services (e.g. licenses and software media). To assist with general information, complaints or comments.

Logging:

Users shall log service requests through a service desk application and selecting an appropriate category for the request from the available menu

Request Approvals:

Some service requests may need additional approvals from the business. The user shall ensure that all relevant approvals are obtained for the request to be fulfilled

Request fulfillment:

The actual fulfillment of the service request shall depend on the nature of the request. Some simpler requests may be completed by the Service desk, acting as the first line of support, while others may be forwarded to specialist groups for fulfillment. The service request shall be referred back to the Service desk for closure. The Service Desk shall check that the user is satisfied with the outcome before the closure takes place.

KPI Measurement:

GIT shall record KPIs to measure and report the efficiency and effectiveness of the request fulfillment process to the management. Each request category/ type shall have an associated expected resolution duration within which the ticket shall be solved. Any delays shall require to be escalated to the senior management for further action.

Change Management:

All changes shall be handled as per the Change Management Policy and Process

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

12. Backup and restoration management Policy

This document describes data backup related processes for GIT. The processes described here cover backups and archival related processes.

This process applies to all GIT managed backups.

Backup Window:

All backups shall be initiated between the following hours (local time):

Servers/ Devices: Daily between 7pm – 9am 
Categorization:

All backups to be initiated shall be divided into Tiers as per the categorizations defined below:

Tier

Suggested Backup frequency

Inclusions

Remarks

Tier I

Daily

Critical databases (SAP/Oracle/MSSQL/Dominos/Sybase/HANA);

Platinum Cloud Package instances

 -

Tier II

Weekly

File Servers; NDMP; Cloud Package instances for Gold, Silver and Bronze cloud packages

 -

Tier III

Ad-hoc

Ad-hoc backup requirements

These backups will only be initiated for those databases, file servers or VM/ Cloud images that have been added to the backup plan earlier

Device Backups:

Device backups shall be stored on designated file servers at least on a weekly basis from where the backup team shall schedule their backups as per the Tier-wise categorization defined Device backups shall also be taken before initiating and after successful implementation of any critical changes carried out on the devices Identified critical servers in CMDB (defined urgency as 'Critical' & capability list as 'Server') should be reviewed on half yearly basis to validate backup requirement with server owners and Service request to raised by server owner to initiate the backup.

Backup Plan:

All backups shall be documented as per standard GIT Backup Plan At a minimum, the following details shall be recorded as part of the backup plan: Hostname of Client Frequency of backup Server Physical Location Backup Server details Save sets - Location of folder/ URL to be backed-up Tier classification of backup Asset/ Device Owner Backup Type (File/Folder/NDMP/Database)

Backup Media:

Only approved backup media (disks and data tapes) shall be used for backups. No CDs/ DVDs/ USBs/ other removable media's shall be allowed for taking backups.

Backup Retention Period:

For specific requirements, Retention period of backups on media (disk/tapes) shall be as per the GIT Data Retention Policy. In case no specific retention period is defined then it shall be determined as per local business and legal requirements. At a minimum, the following backup retention period shall be followed: Daily Backups: 14 days Weekly Backups: 3 weeks Monthly Backups: 3 months Data Replication:

Tier 1 backup category shall be replicated to alternate location periodically
Encryption:

Data sets going into backup appliance shall be encrypted with AES 256 bit or higher 
Backup Plan Verification:

Backup plan shall be verified on a half-yearly basis
Backup Restoration Testing:Backup restoration testing shall be limited  to data restoration of Tier I  backup category.Restoration testing shall be performed quarterly on random sampling basis the service request/Email shared by Server / application ownerThe following table defines the responsibility for performing the backup restoration testing: 

S.No.

Type of backup data

Primary Responsibility

Secondary Responsibility

1

OS/ VM Image Backup

GIT Backup team

-

2

File Server

GIT Backup team

Asset owner

3

Database

Database Owner

GIT Backup team

 Restoration:

Restoration shall be performed by GIT Backup team only upon receiving an approved service request 
Backup Media Disposal: Defective media shall be disposed as per the GIT Asset Management Process GIT Backup team shall ensure that before disposal, no backup media shall contain an active backup image Access:

All access to backup tools and media shall be provided in accordance to the Access management policy and process 
Data Retention:

All backups, archives and related data (e.g. backup logs, access logs, etc.) shall be retained as per the Data Retention Policy
Data Recovery Requirements:

Data recovery shall be performed on the basis of business requirement.
Cyber Recovery Solution: Cyber Recovery Solution maintains on-prem mission-critical crown jewels applications (DBs and Webservers) and GIT critical services configuration data protection. This solution is hardened and built in a secured, air-gape 'vault' environment that can be used for analysis, Isolation, Immutability, Intelligence and recovery purposes.   Crown jewel Application – All the Crown jewel applications as listed in the service catalogue would be part of the CRS.GIT Critical Services – All the GIT services which are classified as critical services in service catalogue.

Capacity Management:

All capacity requirements for backup tools and storage space shall be managed in accordance to Capacity Management policy and process

Change Management:

Any configuration changes shall be performed in accordance to Change Management policy and process

Patching:

All patching activities for backup tools shall be performed in accordance with the Patch Management policy and process

Incident/Problem Management:

Incident/Problem Management policy and process shall be followed for backup tool related incidents/problems

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

13. Desktop-Laptop Management Policy
Includes:

This policy is applicable to all end-user assets (Desktops/Laptops) provisioned and managed by GIT.

The objective of Desktop/Laptop Management policy is to govern workstation/desktop and laptop provision, surrender, security, and maintenance process. Desktops/workstations and laptops holds critical business information, and it is significant to monitor its usage and security.

Every employee of HCL shall be allocated only one laptop or desktop as per their respective band.All laptop requests shall be raised in service management tool except resale and CPS built-in (Leased in) Laptops which shall be procured through CAPEX only.GIT Logistics team shall allocate laptops/ desktops as per specific service request approvals. 

Laptop Category

E3 & below

E4, E5

E6 & above

E9 & above

The Standard

Self

Self

NA

NA

Non-Standard

L4 Head

L4 Head

L4 Head

NA

Light weight (i7/8GB/256SSD)

NA

NA

Self

NA

IT approved high-end/special models

NA

NA

NA

Self

Medical advised light-weight laptops shall require HR manager approval. Laptop model under this category shall be decided by GIT User shall provide client / business justification along with service request approval, in case he/she requires any specific model other than standard model All laptops shall be owned by GIT and shall be allocated to the employees on monthly rental basis. Rental of laptops will be based on its model and configurations and PO value. Rental shall not be applicable for the laptops which are more than 4 years of age or issued on temporary / standby mode If laptop is not collected within 1 week of delivery notification, then minimum 3 months rental shall be charged to user's project WBS and cost centre In case Laptop is found physically broken then the repairing cost shall be charged to respective project Any asset assigned to the user shall have an associated cost assigned as well and the same shall be recovered from the user in case the asset is lost or damaged by the user. Kindly refer form(s) section of the policy to view Insurance Claim Initiation process along with Do's & Don'ts in case of Lost or Damaged IT Assets. If the laptop is beyond repair or repair cost is higher than the depreciated cost, then the remaining rental shall be charged to Project in one go considering 4 years as laptop life In case laptop is lost and stolen, user must submit FIR and NTR (Non traceable report). Remaining rental shall be charged to project and other laptop shall be issued to user with additional cost as rental per month User must submit the EUC Asset to GIT while exiting In case user has not returned the laptop while exiting / absconding then user has to pay 2x (x = laptop purchase cost) as recovery amount and a legal notice shall also be sent to the user's address by HR / EHS. Admin shall provide FIR / NTR against lost laptop to write off from finance book For EUC asset upgradation, user shall open service request in service management tool and respective project shall bear the additional cost In case of data recovery from the laptop, user has to provide L4 approval and Project has to bear the cost. Additionally, user will be charged Hard-disk cost through project CC/WBS as it will be tampered while recovery and will not be considered under warranty HCLTech owned and approved data cards shall be allowed on laptops / desktops Asset serial number (BIOS provided or OEM provided/printed or barcode generated tag based on SAP) can be considered as an asset label All allocated laptops shall reflect in asset management tool for gate pass issuance. In addition to laptop gate pass hardcopy, User shall also show laptop gate pass on his / her mobile application Temporary Laptops issued for usage in Export Controlled regions shall comply with the GIT Asset management policy and process User shall acknowledge the asset through their myhcl.com account on receipt of the asset. Failure to do so will attract auto- block of user account on myhcl.com All information assets – electronic or physical – shall be labeled appropriately as per the information classification policy stated in the IT Security Management Policy and Naming Conventions Policy TP resource's laptop allocation will be mapped to his RM in the system, along with employee details in contract employee" field. Request for Non specified HCLTech model should be approved by L4 Head with business justification and attached in the Remedy ticket. Future Bulk Request will be approved by GBO Finance & Business L4 approval. All customer specific model laptop request, should be based on final solution documents or final SOW An inventory of assets will be maintained by the Asset Class owners for each asset identified. Conversely, the asset owners will be identified for all the assets and they will be responsible for successful execution, tracking and completion of the following activities at the minimum Maintaining the asset; Safeguarding the asset and asset documentation; Classifying the assets as per the Information Classification Policy; Renew any contracts/ agreements/ licenses associated with the asset at required intervals; Conducting periodic reviews to ensure compliance to the organization's policies and processes; Safeguarding all media (other storage media used to install the software / store data) associated with the asset; Conducting annual risk and criticality assessment for all assets assigned to them Maintaining all original manuals and reference documentation (if any)

Asset Validation (Desktop/Laptop)

GIT Logistics team shall send a self-verification notification to all Laptop owners and request to confirm the ownership of assets. In the event the user fails to comply to the above requirement within 7 days of receipt of the self-verification request, their myhcl.com account shall be blocked.

Asset Rentals (Desktop)

The requested asset shall be issued for a minimum period of 1 day, with a minimum chargeback for 1 month GIT shall chargeback the rental cost to the end user's department. The details of the charge back amount shall be shared with Finance.

Asset Refresh (Desktop/Laptop)

IT Logistics/ ITFO shall record the asset age of each desktop/laptop within the ITHAM tool If the facility is a bonded building such as SEZ or STPI, IT Logistics shall maintain the cost of de-bonding and Inter Unit Transfer (IUT) for each asset As per management directive, IT Logistics shall perform assessment for asset refreshment for End-of-Life (EOL) desktops and laptops.

Asset Movement (Desktop/Laptop)

SR shall be raised for IT resource or asset movement within HCLTech facilities. For each asset a child SR shall be raised and assigned to different ITFO personnel.

SAP Asset Record (Desktop/Laptop)

GRN, asset issue details, asset surrender details and asset tagging for all laptops and desktops shall be recorded in SAP Quarterly SAP records of assets shall be verified and reconciled with the physical verification of the assets issued to the users and asset stock If user is moving in different country / zone then he has to return the laptops before moving. In case laptop is bonded then it has to be returned before leaving the current location within the same country

Software Installation and Un-installation:

All software installations/ uninstallations and license requests shall be subject to the Software Asset Management Policy and Process

Admin Access Request Fulfillment:

Admin access shall be disabled by default. Admin access shall be granted in case of specific access approvals along with business justification All requests shall be handled in accordance with GIT Request Fulfillment policy and process Admin access on desktops/laptops shall be provisioned for a maximum of 365 days User shall be notified 15 days prior to the expiration of admin access. User shall raise a new SR post expiry of initial requested time period.

USB Access:

USB (mass storage devices) shall be disabled by default on all EUC assets. USB access shall be granted in case of specific access approvals along with business justification Access shall be provisioned for a maximum period of 365 days All requests shall be handled in accordance with GIT Request Fulfillment policy and process User shall be notified 15 days prior to the expiration of USB access. User shall raise a new SR post expiry of initial requested time period

Encryption Requirement:

All laptops hard disks shall be encrypted in accordance with the GIT Encryption policy and process. Desktops shall be encryp     ted on-demand from the delivery teams as per the GIT Encryption policy and process

Preventive Maintenance of Assets (Desktop/Laptop)

Desktops:

ITFO shall organize a maintenance workshop for all desktops once in six months that will be conducted on each Saturday for four consecutive weeks An email notification for the workshop shall be sent to all users 2 weeks in advance of the workshop date Team leads shall track the workshop, and publish a weekly performance report with the respective Facility managers;

Laptops:

ITFO shall organize an annual laptop service camp on-site with OEM's Authorized Service Provider (ASP). The camp shall be set up for 3 consecutive working days An email notification for the camp shall be sent to all users 2 weeks in advance of the camp date. Users should attend the camp for their laptop maintenance Team leads shall track the camp, and publish a daily performance report with the respective Facility managers

Hard drive formatting

Hard drives shall be formatted before system issue (including rental asset) and employee exit

Laptop/ Desktop Data Backup

Employees shall be responsible to take a back-up of their data periodically

Laptop/ Desktop Data Recovery

In case of the involvement of an external vendor for data recovery, GIT Encryption policy and process shall be followed.

Antivirus Management

All assets must adhere to the GIT Anti-virus Management Policy and Process requirements

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

14. Software Asset Management Policy

This process applies to all HCLTech employees and contractors who use HCLTech Global IT (or client) provided computer equipment or computer equipment used within the HCLTech network/premises.

The policies outlined in this document are aimed to provide a framework for efficient governance and better management of software asset management services. It aims to encompass the people, process and technology used to improve the software asset management. This document details the policies applicable to all the areas of GIT SAM and is applicable to all the areas of GIT where there are corporate users, customers, vendors or 3rd party involvement in HCLTech's IT assets associated with software requirements, licensing and usage.

Software Acquisition:

Demand for all Software Assets shall be defined and procured as per the software acquisition process outlined in the process document.

Vendor Management:

All software procurement shall be done in accordance with the Supplier & Contract Management process. All Software Assets shall be utilized to the optimum extent possible without violation of Vendor Agreements and Contracts.

Open-source Software & Freeware:

All open-source software shall be approved by the Legal and GIT AppSec team before deployment in the HCLTech environment. All freeware software shall be approved by the TARMAC and GIT AppSec team before deployment in the HCL environment.

Reconciliation:

The onus for maintaining a declared and compliant machine shall rest with the user, and users are responsible for all software on their machine, whether installed by them or by others using their machines. As such, users shall always remain aware of whatever software exists on their machines to avoid facing any issues.

Employees shall comply with requirements to install and run periodic software audits on their HCLTech Global IT provided equipment.

Request Fulfilment:

All software license issuance requests shall be raised via an SR in the service management tool.

Asset Management:

A users request for software (not part of HCL SOE) installation, shall declare his/her machines (Desktop, Laptop, Server, etc.) in TARMAC.

License Issuance:

All software installed/deployed on a machine shall compulsorily be declared-in/issued-through TARMAC. Employees shall understand and comply with the process of requesting for a software license and associated procedures for surrender, and modification of details, for the same. Employees shall understand and comply with the process for seeking approval for additional software required to fulfill a business purpose. Employees shall understand the process for obtaining approval for HCLTech owned software to be installed on non-HCLTech owned equipment.

Monitoring:

All aspects of Software Assets shall be monitored and recorded, including but not limited to an understanding of: Owners of software applications (Applications or Assets) Entry of applications into the organization and deployment to desktop/servers Licensing policies and contract information associated with the assets Implementation of an ongoing compliance program Report asset usage for decision making Re-allocate unused software licenses to decrease the number of license procurements on an annual basis.

Usage Metering:

HCLTech Global IT shall monitor the usage of software licenses installed on all machines. GIT shall issue alerts to the user of automated un-install or application blocking in-case a particular HCLTech-provided software is deployed but not used for 1 month. For this, GIT shall utilize data collected from the machine in conjunction with TARMAC issuance data

Audit:

HCLTech shall reserve the "Right to Audit", for all machines that have been provided to the user by HCLTech or whose software compliance is managed by HCLTech. The "Right to Audit" shall define HCLTech's access to the machine via electronic or physical methods for scanning, monitoring, and regulating compliance for machines whose compliance is handled by HCLTech. In order to meet audit requirements for software compliance, HCLTech Global IT shall use a variety of tools to identify and validate software licenses. End-user shall be responsible to follow request from HCLTech Global IT and provide data relating to the software installed on HCLTech-owned GIT equipment that they are allocated. This may include the installation and generation of audit reports using tools such as TARMAC. If during an audit, a user is found to have un-approved software installed on HCLTech GIT equipment allocated to them, this shall be investigated and where appropriate disciplinary action will be taken. The onus of having legal and authorized software on a system shall rest with the users themselves. While every effort is made to scan machines all over HCLTech premises, some clients deny permission to HCLTech for doing so. In such cases, HCLTech shall ask the client to provide an Indemnity Letter, which absolves HCLTech of the responsibility for any non-compliant software being used on machines within that particular ODC/OMC.

Retirement:

Software Retirement is an essential part of the Software Asset Management process. Depending on the availability of a newer version, lack of support, contractual obligations, etc. it shall be decided that a particular software asset should be retired.

Administrative Rights:

Administrative Rights on a machine shall only be granted in-case of an appropriate business justification and the exception management policy shall be adhered to while granting access. All Administrative Rights shall be reviewed on an agreed upon schedule.

Software Renewals:

All clauses related to Renewals and upgrades shall be addressed in the Annual Maintenance Contracts signed between HCLTech and Software vendors including free upgrades for a number of systems, auto-renewal of licenses.

Patching:

All software patches and upgrades shall be made available to users as per release schedule

All patching activities shall be performed in accordance with the Patch Management policy and process.

Software Usage:

HCLTech & its employees shall respect and shall not infringe intellectual property rights viz. copyrights, trademarks, patents of third parties in software. HCLTech & its employees shall adhere to the terms and conditions of licenses, as applicable. Employees shall understand the legality and importance of only using authorized and legally purchased copies of software. Employees shall understand that it is against HCLTech SAM Policy to install un-approved software on HCLTech Global IT (or client) provided equipment. For any software that is found deployed on a user machine without TARMAC approval, the TARMAC application will notify the user via mailers as well as messages at the time of myhcltech access. The user's RM/PM & BU head will also be copied in these mailers. However, user's myhcltech will not be blocked (unless it is a software that is totally blacklisted in the organization). The onus is fully on the user to ensure that any software is deployed only after TARMAC approval is in place. Otherwise, all such deployments will be treated as non-compliance to the process. HCLTech explicitly prohibits the usage of trial software within the Organization pursuant to existing Vendor policies and agreements. In case of explicit approval from a vendor for usage of trial software within the organization, aforementioned approval should be shared with the TARMAC team before installation of the product on any HCLTech systems. Failure to do so can result into non-compliance as well as violation of vendor agreements. In case of software provided by the client, the Delivery/Project Team should get a Tripartite Agreement signed. The signatories for this agreement will be HCLTech (Account/Delivery Head for the project), Client's representative and the Software Vendor. Without a signed and approved agreement, usage of any client-provided software is a violation of HCLTech's policies. HCLTech purchased software licenses shall be managed and allocated according to business requirements. All suspected breaches of the SAM Policy shall be reported to SAM_GIT@hcl.com and investigated by HCLTech Global IT and an appropriate member of the HCLTech Executive Management. Employees found to be in breach of this Policy shall be subject to disciplinary procedures including up to termination. Software Asset Management process for HCLTech shall be defined; including, but not limited to: Asset Procurement, Vendor Management, Asset Utilization, Policy Compliance, and Asset Retirement. Corporate compliance shall be ensured for supplier software license agreements of HCLTech approved software. Industry best practices and standards shall be adhered with to instill confidence with trading partners and customers of HCLTech.

General Policy Violations:

The following are some examples of policy violations:

Making copies of existing software. Usage of hacked, cracked or other unauthorized/unregistered software versions. Illegal downloads of software media from sites. Usage of Trial software unless authorized/approved by TARMAC License Admin Team/SAM GIT Team. Deploying software without proper Tools Adoption and Requisition Management Application Centre ("TARMAC") approval. Violation of terms and conditions of the Administrative or other rights granted to employee for any project/assignment etc. Any employee found to be in violations of SAM Policy will be subject to disciplinary procedures as per Company policy.

Any employee/s, who come to know of instances including but not limited to any of above stated violations are advised to report the matter to SAM Team (SAM_GIT@hcl.com). The details of the employee providing the information will be kept confidential.

Exception Management

All exceptions to this policy must comply with GIT Exception Management Policy and be approved by authorized personnel as per configuration in service management tool.

Media Replication:

Critical databases shall be replicated to alternate location periodically

Please refer the forms section of the Policy for NON GIT Security Incident Management SOP.

Consequences
Non compliance to AUP will result in:

Denial or removal of access privileges to HCLTech information systems
Disciplinary including penalties
Civil litigation and/or criminal prosecution under applicable national and federal statutes
Penalty in Software Asset Management Policy:

If a user does not take corrective action to resolve reported process non-compliance as described below under "Software Usage" section, a penalty shall be levied to the user's project/DU/LOB. The penalty rate is ascertained by the GIT SAM team and any action pertaining to a penalty is the sole decision of the GIT SAM Team.
Incidents of repeated non-compliances will be reported to HR/Infosec for disciplinary actions.

Disclaimer – The company reserves the right to alter, append or withdraw this policy either in part or in full based on management’s discretion.

HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Archival Policy
(Effective from January 12, 2016)
Underscore _________ Underscore

ARCHIVAL POLICY
1. Introduction:
Regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, requires that the Company shall make
disclosures of any material events or information.
2. Purpose & Scope:
3. Definitions:
“Board of Directors” or “the Board” means the Board of Directors of HCL Technologies
Limited, as constituted from time to time.
“Listing Regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
“Policy” means the Archival Policy.
4. Period for hosting the information on the website:
5. Amendment:
Furthermore, the aforementioned Regulation requires the Company to disclose on its website
all such material events or information that has been disclosed to the stock exchange(s) under
this regulation, and such disclosures shall be hosted on the website for a minimum period of
five years and thereafter in accordance with the archival policy of the listed entity.
The purpose of this Policy is to define the period up to which the material
information shall be hosted on the Company's website.
“Material Events” means events as specified in Schedule III to the Listing Regulations
from time to time upon occurrence of which the Company shall make disclosures to stock
exchange(s) and host such disclosures on its website.
The disclosure of material events shall be hosted on the Company's website for a
period of five years from the date of disclosure of information to the Stock Exchanges.
The Company's Board of Directors shall approve any change to the Policy. The
Board shall have the right to withdraw and/or amend any part of this Policy or
the entire Policy at any time, as it deems fit, or from time to time, and the
decision of the Board in this respect shall be final and binding.


Remuneration Policy and Criteria for Payment to Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors receive sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board of
Directors, the Audit Committee, and the Finance Committee of the Company. They are also
paid a commission within the limits approved by the Board and the Company's
shareholders. The total amount of such commission, aggregated for all Non-Executive
Directors, does not exceed 1% of the Company's net profits in a fiscal year. The said
commission is determined annually by the Board of Directors and distributed among the
Non-Executive Directors based on their attendance and contributions at Board and certain
Committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational matters outside of meetings.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
POLICY
HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED

1
Revision History
Version Description Effective date Approved by
1.0 Adoption of the Corporate Social
Companies Act, 2013
April 15, 2014 Board of Directors
1.1 April 21-23, 2021 Board of Directors
Responsibility Policy' in accordance with the
This `Corporate Social Responsibility`
“Policy” replaces the earlier `Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy.

2
1. OBJECTIVES OF THE POLICY
2. ABOUT HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
序言
HCL Technologies Limited ("HCL Technologies" or "HCLT" or the "Company")
progressively contributes to the socio-economic and environmental
advancement of the planet with \'Corporate Social Responsibility\' ("CSR") at
the very core of its existence.
Aligned with the Global Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs"), it stands
firmly against the exploitation of all sentient beings and natural resources, and
advocates tirelessly for the conservation of our planet and respect for all lives.
A statement of intent, the CSR Policy of the Company (the “Policy”) clearly
outlines its progressive developmental agenda. More than just a compliance
document, it commits us to the highest standards of environmental
sustainability, and reiterates our commitment to holistic integrated
development, driven by sustainable business practices.
Guided by the values of equity, dignity, and equal opportunities, the ethos of
‘giving back’, in ways that matter, is enshrined in its culture. Through meaningful
and strategic partnerships, it effectively leverages the ‘power of many’ to
positively impact lives and spread smiles, thus making this world a better place
in all possible ways.
In the context of India, words and expressions used in this Policy but not defined,
and which are defined in the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) along with the
Rules made thereunder, shall carry the same meanings as assigned to them in
the Act read with the Rules made thereunder.
The Policy defines the intent, objectives, and approach of the Company and
establishes the guiding principles for the selection, implementation, monitoring,
and evaluation of CSR activities, as well as the formulation of the Annual Action
Plan, to ensure the growth and advancement of society and the conservation of
natural resources.
HCL Technologies Limited empowers global enterprises with technology for the
next decade, today. The Company's Mode 1-2-3 strategy, based on its
deep-domain industry expertise, client-centricity, and entrepreneurial culture of
ideapreneurship™, enables businesses to transform into next-gen enterprises.

3
The Company offers its services and products through three business units: IT and Business
Services (ITBS), Engineering and R&D Services (ERS), and Products & Platforms (P&P). ITBS
enables global enterprises to transform their businesses through offerings in the areas of
applications, infrastructure, digital process operations, and next generation digital
transformation solutions. ERS offers engineering services and solutions in all aspects of
product development and platform engineering. P&P provides modernized software products
to global clients for their technology and industry-specific requirements. Through its cutting-
edge co-innovation labs, global delivery capabilities, and a broad global network, the
Company delivers holistic services in various industry verticals, categorized as Financial
Services, Manufacturing, Technology and Services, Telecom and Media, Retail and CPG, Life
Sciences and Healthcare, and Public Services.
3. CSR VISION & MISSION
VISION – To be a ‘source code’ for socio-economic and environmental development.
4. STRATEGY AND APPROACH – OUR 10 CSR COMMANDMENTS
With a presence across the globe, the Company takes pride in its diversity, social responsibility,
sustainability, and education initiatives. For more information, visit www.hcltech.com
MISSION – To nurture clean, green, and healthy communities where everyone is
empowered and equipped to reach their full potential in partnership with its
employees, communities, and stakeholders, while promoting volunteerism and
establishing international standards of strategic planning, implementation, and
measuring impact.
The Company's corporate conscience is defined by not just one, but many meaningful voices.
Its business objectives align with social goals, establishing it as a responsible
enterprise where the growth and well-being of communities, especially those in
the neighborhood, and the protection of the environment form the foundation
of all its endeavors. The Company invests in people, the planet, partnerships,
prosperity, and peace agenda to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
True to its DNA, the Company believes in developing 'source codes'. Its approach is
determined by the 10 'Cs', or the 10 Commandments, that guide the CSR efforts. These 'secular

4
ii. CHOICE: the power or liberty to choose. We are conscious of the individual’s ‘right to
choice’ and offer a bouquet of innovative services, opening up multiple points of
engagement.
iii.
iv.
COMPREHENSIVE: an ecosystem of well-being: Our interventions target areas critical
for a person’s development - health, education, sports, livelihoods and skilling, and the
environment.
CONTINUOUS: Life cycle approach: We leverage the Integrated Community
Development Approach (ICDA) impacting every stage of life.
viii.
ix.
x. CAPITAL: Going beyond the financial. We view capital as more than just finance.
•
inclusive approaches' are the lodestar, the blueprints for replication, helping to scale
endeavors to different geographies and populations.
1. CLARITY: of thought, purpose and action. We design and implement
impactfulinterventions to break the cycle of poverty in all its forms, be it
social, economic, or environmental.
CATALYSE: spark a path for self-determination. We are mindful of people's own agency
and ability to effect change, and provide relevant opportunities for meaningful growth.
CO-CREATE: work and act together to advance progress. We combine the wisdom of
communities with scientific rigor to initiate and drive transformative change.
versus
versus
vi. COMPASSION: rooted in empathy and deep underlying concern for the
well-being of people. Our programs, interventions, and strategies
specifically target the unreached and ultra-poor.
CONVERGENCE: Unifying stakeholders. We bring our communities,
customers, employees, non-profits, and government bodies together,
leveraging the strength, experience, and expertise of each stakeholder for
greater good.
CREDIBILITY: holding ourselves to exacting standards of transparency and governance,
we are accountable to our employees, partners, and communities.
Creating safe spaces that energize and inspire, we actively build human,
developmental, and environmental capital.
Human Capital – creating access to knowledge, technical expertise,
and an agency of skills that maximize human potential, leading to
empowered, self-sufficient, gender-equal, and inclusive communities;

5
•
• Environmental Capital – investing in efficient and effective green solutions that
nurture and conserve our planet.
5. HCL FOUNDATION
5.1 KEY CSR STREAMS FOR HCL FOUNDATION
Developmental Capital – enabling rich social networks, physical assets, and
institutional strength that nurture a culture of self-reliance and sustained growth;
Fundamental to the approach is the recognition of technology as a force
multiplier and its deployment as a key instrument of transformative change.
To achieve its objectives, the Company drives its corporate social responsibility
agenda through its CSR arm, HCL Foundation, a Public Charitable Trust.
Established in 2011, HCL Foundation's belief in the power of communities to lift themselves
out of poverty and lead a life of dignity and self-respect lies at the heart of all its initiatives.
HCL Foundation has been established to undertake programs and projects as
part of its CSR mandate that are aligned with the 17 Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) and the national missions. The Company's CSR agenda is also
aligned with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. All CSR initiatives are
inclusive, gender transformative, with special attention to the ultra-poor,
people with disabilities, and environmental conservation.
EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE & DEVELOPMENT (ECCD): We view ECCD as a powerful
equalizer and work to ensure the holistic development of all children under 8
years of age. Our interventions provide stimulation and early childhood
education, improve access to home and centre-based quality care, and
empower parents and caregivers.
HEALTH: Universal, equitable, and comprehensive well-being-oriented health
for all, which is accessible, available, affordable, and acceptable, is vital to our
health stream. Through strategic interventions, we disseminate critical
information, break taboos, seed responsible health-seeking behavior, invest in
health systems strengthening, and provide services when necessary.

6
ENVIRONMENT: We protect, conserve, restore, enhance indigenous biodiversity and
promote clean energy solutions. Reviving flora and fauna, restoring water bodies, expanding
green cover, conserving wildlife and increasing environmental awareness are critical
priorities. Investing in infrastructure, we are establishing renewable energy-based
ecosystems for local economic development.
\nEDUCATION: We promote quality education, foster critical thinking, and equip
children and adults with 21st-century life skills. By adopting strategic
approaches such as sports, scholarships, remedial and bridging programs, and
strengthening state systems, we create pathways to access.\n
By leveraging innovative technology, we promote gender-transformative and
inclusive education.
SKILL DEVELOPMENT & LIVELIHOOD: Encompassing agriculture productivity
improvement, skill development of youth and women, entrepreneurship
development through micro-enterprises, and strengthening government
systems, we facilitate sustainable livelihood opportunities. We actively impart
career guidance, counseling, and mentorship to our communities, and in
deserving cases, invest in their venture through seed capital.
WATER, SANITATION & HYGIENE (WASH): We focus on equitable and adequate
access to sanitation and safe drinking water with full community engagement
and participation. This includes promotion of safe WASH practices in schools
and communities, management of wastewater, creation of proper drainage
systems, and safe disposal of solid and liquid waste.
DISASTER RISK REDUCTION & RESPONSE: Given the recurrent and unpredictable nature of
disasters and humanitarian crises, we are developing long-term strategies, addressing all
stages. From prevention – resilience building; to immediate relief – efficient distribution of
essential goods and services; to rehabilitation – putting lives and nature back on track.
GENDER & INCLUSION: By identifying and challenging socio-economic and
cultural barriers, we are building inclusive communities and institutions where
everyone, irrespective of gender, age, religion and beliefs, can access critical
resources necessary for leading a fulfilling life.
Child protective strategies, inclusion, gender transformative approaches, and
technology-enabled solutions remain central in all initiatives of the HCL Foundation.

7
6. GOVERNANCE
6.1. GLOBAL
6.2. INDIA
6.2.1 Composition of CSR Committee:
The CSR Committee of the Company has been constituted in accordance with the Act read
with the Rules made thereunder.
Formulate / amend and recommend to the Board of Directors of the Company:
a) The CSR Policy of the Company.
b)
•
• The manner of execution of such programmes or projects.
• The modalities of utilization of funds and implementation schedules for the
programmes or projects.
•
•
ii. Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on CSR activities.
iii.
Governance of CSR activities is conducted by the CSR Committee of the
Company's Board in a transparent, accountable, and robust manner, both
globally and locally for the relevant geography.
CSR activities are carried out across PAN India as part of the Company's CSR obligations.
6.2.2 Responsibilities of the CSR Committee:
1.
The Annual Action Plan in accordance with the CSR Policy, which shall include:
The list of CSR programs or projects approved for implementation in
areas or subjects specified in Schedule VII of the Act.
Monitoring and Reporting mechanism for the programmes or projects; and
Details of Needs and Impact Assessment, if any, for the programmes or projects.
If the amount spent in a financial year is less than the statutory
obligation, take note of the reasons for not spending the entire
mandatory amount, and recommend to the Board on the treatment
of the unspent amount in accordance with the provisions of the Act
and the Rules made thereunder.

8
iv.
Monitor the CSR Policy and the Annual Action Plan for the CSR activities of the
Company from time to time.
Review the need for Impact Assessment, if any, for the projects or programmes.
6.2.3 Responsibilities of the Board:
ii.
iii.
iv.
viii. Alter the Annual Action Plan at any time, if required, during the financial year
based on reasonable justification and on the recommendation of the CSR
Committee.
In any financial year, if the CSR expenditure exceeds the amount
required by the Act, recommend to the Board the offset of the
excess expenditure in accordance with the provisions of the Act and
the rules made under it.
versus
versus Establish a transparent monitoring mechanism for the implementation
of CSR projects, programs, or activities undertaken by the Company.
vi.
1. Approve the CSR Policy and any amendments thereof, as well as the
Annual Action Plan, based on the recommendation of the CSR Committee.
Disclose the CSR Policy in accordance with the requirements
specified in the Act and the Rules formulated thereunder.
Ensure that the CSR activities are carried out by the Company in
accordance with the CSR Policy.
Ensure that the Company spends the amount indicated in the Act and the Rules
framed thereunder in every financial year in accordance with its CSR Policy.
versus If the amount spent in a financial year is less than the statutory
obligation, take note of the reasons for not spending the entire
mandatory amount, and ensure that the unspent amount is treated
in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules made
thereunder.
versus In any financial year, if the CSR expenditure exceeds the amount
obligated under the Act, the excess spent shall be offset in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules made
thereunder.
vi. Ensure that the CSR funds disbursed have been used for the purposes and in
the manner as approved and obtain a certificate from the Chief Financial Officer
of the Company to that effect.

9
ix.
x.
7. IMPLEMENTATION
7.1. GLOBAL: The Company shall comply with local CSR Policy frameworks, if any, for
Geographies outside India.
The Company may also take up any direct CSR activity(ies) as may be decided by the
7.2.1.1 FINANCIALS
Monitor the implementation of projects in accordance with the approved
timelines and annual allocations as stipulated by the Act and the Rules.
Ensure that the Company carries out impact assessment of the
programmes or projects in accordance with the provisions of the Act
and the Rules made thereunder, and take note of the impact
assessment reports, if any, conducted by the Company.
7.2. INDIA: The Company shall implement the CSR activities in accordance with the Act,
Rules, as may be applicable.
The Company shall undertake CSR activities in India primarily through the
HCL Foundation, which may implement the CSR programmes/projects of
the Company either on its own or it may engage other registered Public
Trust(s) / registered Society(ies) / Company(ies) incorporated under Section
8 of the Act / Government Departments / Schemes or any other suitable
implementing organization/agency eligible to undertake CSR activities in
compliance with the Act, and the Rules made thereunder.
Company's Board of Directors.
The Company may also explore possibilities for collaborating with other
Corporate / National / Multilateral / Bilateral / International Agencies in
order to synergize its efforts and maximize financial resources as well as
outcomes and impact, subject to the approval of the CSR Committee.
1. The Company shall allocate the amount specified in the Act and the Rules to achieve its
CSR objectives. Any underspending or overexpenditure shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the
Act.

10
ii.
iii.
iv. Salary of staff engaged in CSR activities may be included in the CSR expenditure.
Administrative overheads shall not exceed the limits prescribed in the Act and the
Rules for a financial year.
7.2.2. QUALIFICATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS
ii.
iii.
iv.
Expenses incurred for fulfilling the requirements of any other statute under any law in
force shall not be counted as CSR expenditure.
Programmes/projects shall be identified, and budgets shall be allocated
for such activities through a process that incorporates the identification
of suitable implementing agencies, need assessment (where required),
and a clear outline of desired outcomes.
Should the Company generate any surplus from its CSR
programs/projects, the same shall not be included in the business profit
and shall be dealt with in the manner as specified in the Act and the rules
made thereunder.
versusCSR expenditure of the Company may include the creation or acquisition of capital
assets which shall be held by HCL Foundation/beneficiaries/Public Authority.
versusExpenditures towards the need and impact assessment of CSR programs/projects
shall be recorded in accordance with the limits prescribed in the Act and the Rules.
vi.
1. Activities undertaken in pursuance of the normal course of business of the
Company shall not be considered as CSR activity.
Direct or indirect contributions of any amount to any political party shall
not be considered as CSR activity.
Only those CSR activities, programs, or projects that are carried out in
India will qualify as CSR activities, except for activities conducted for the
training of Indian sports personnel representing any State or Union
Territory at the national level or representing India at the international
level.
Activities, programs, or projects that solely benefit the employees of the
Company shall not be considered as CSR activities.
versusOne-off events such as marathons, awards, charitable contributions,
advertisements, and sponsorships of TV programs, etc., shall not be
considered as CSR activities.
versus
vi. Sponsorship-based activities for marketing purposes should not be
regarded as CSR activities.

11
7.2.3. CSR Activities, Programmes and Projects
The CSR activities, programs, and projects that the Company will undertake
shall be those recommended by the CSR Committee and approved by the Board
of the Company.
The CSR Committee will approve the undertaking of such activities and programmes/projects
as are covered under the following areas as set out in Schedule VII of the Act and any
complementing activities:
1. Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting health care
including preventive health care and sanitation, including contributions to
the Swach Bharat Kosh set-up by the Central Government for the promotion
of sanitation, and making safe drinking water available.
ii. Promoting education, including special education and vocational skills
enhancement, especially among children, women, the elderly, and people
with disabilities, as well as livelihood improvement projects.
iii. Promoting gender equality, empowering women, establishing homes and
hostels for women and orphans; establishing old age homes, day care
centers, and other facilities for senior citizens, and measures to reduce
inequalities faced by socially and economically disadvantaged groups.
Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protection of flora
and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural resources,
and maintaining the quality of soil, air, and water, including contributions to
the Clean Ganga Fund established by the Central Government for the
rejuvenation of the Ganges River.
versusProtection of national heritage, art and culture including the restoration of
buildings and sites of historical importance and works of art; establishment
of public libraries; promotion and development of traditional art and
handicrafts.
Measures for the benefit of armed forces veterans, war widows, and their dependents,
Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and Central Para Military Forces (CPMF) veterans,
and their dependents including widows.
Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognized sports, Paralympic sports,
and Olympic sports.

12
ix.
x. Rural development projects
xi. Slum area development.
All such other activities and programmes/projects as may be added in Schedule VII of the
Act or otherwise allowed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs from time to time.
7.2.4 GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR SELECTION IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING &
EVALUATION OF CSR ACTIVITIES
a) Selection:
The Company and/or HCL Foundation will receive proposals for PAN India
implementation based on need assessment (wherever applicable) through well-
viii. Contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund or Prime Minister’s Citizen Fund
Assistance and Relief Fund in Emergency Situations (PM CARES Fund) or any other fund
established by the central government for socio-economic development and relief and welfare of the
scheduled castes, tribes, other backward classes, minorities, and women.
\n(a) Contribution to incubators or research and development projects in the fields
of science, technology, engineering, and medicine, funded by the Central
Government, State Government, Public Sector Undertaking, or any agency of the
Central Government or State Government; and (b) Contributions to public-funded
universities; Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs); National Laboratories and
autonomous bodies established under the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE);
Department of Biotechnology (DBT); Department of Science and Technology (DST);
Department of Pharmaceuticals; Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, and Naturopathy,
Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy (AYUSH); Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology, and other bodies, namely Defense Research and Development
Organisation (DRDO); Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR); Indian Council
of Medical Research (ICMR), and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR),
engaged in conducting research in science, technology, engineering, and medicine
aimed at promoting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).\n\n
Twelfth.Disaster management, including relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction activities.
xiiii.
According to the Circular dated 18.06.2014 issued by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, the entries in the aforementioned Schedule VII should be interpreted
liberally in order to capture the essence of the subjects listed in said Schedule.
1.

13
publicized RFPs (Request for Proposals) for funding projects during the Financial Year.
o Need Assessment, Baseline Survey where required.
o Enumeration of end goals/outcomes/Impact/theory of change.
o Specification of start date and end date.
o
o Clear identification of beneficiaries.
o
iii.
iv.
b)
Proposals may also be received from Government Departments/Agencies in
the greater public interest.
ii. The CSR programme/project proposals shall include:
Budget allocation.
Clear identification of milestones for the entire duration of the
programme/project.
HCL Foundation’s panel of experts shall transparently evaluate the
proposals received and projects, and partners will be prioritized for
approval by assessing their potential for sustainability, scale, and impact.
Opportunities for complementing/supplementing Government
initiatives/programmes/projects will be explored. However, funds will not
be deposited in Government accounts except where the Act/Rules clearly
specify such requirement.
The Company may engage international organizations for designing,
monitoring, and evaluation of the CSR programs or projects, as well as for
capacity building of its own personnel for CSR.
versusAgreements shall be signed with implementing agencies qualified to
undertake CSR activities under The Act / Government Departments /
Agencies for each approved project, clearly outlining deliverables,
timelines, and budget.
Implementation, monitoring, and evaluation:
1. A progress report on a periodic basis for all programs and projects shall be
provided to the Board by the CSR Committee.

14
ii.
iii.
a.
b. Release of CSR funds only against verified utilizations.
iv.
a. Regular field visits to programme/project sites by designated staff/teams.
b. Comprehensive documentation /compilation of field reports, including picture and
video-based monitoring. E-monitoring systems will also be in place.
c.
d.
7.2.5 IMPACT ASSESSMENT
7.2.6 DOCUMENTATION
HCL Foundation shall report the progress of all programmes and projects
to the CSR Committee.
A comprehensive monitoring mechanism will be established by the
Company to ensure that the CSR process operates in accordance with the
requirements of the Act and the Rules, ensuring that all
programmes/projects are implemented on schedule and within the budget.
This will be carried out based on the following:
Installation of an MIS that is designed to ensure strict control over
expenditures and the actual implementation of activities as planned.
The monitoring system designed by the Company will include:
Regular interaction with the beneficiary communities to obtain feedback.
Monitoring the timely use of funds to ensure that programmes/projects are
being implemented as budgeted,
endAny other activity that the CSR Committee may consider necessary in the
broader interest of its CSR initiatives.
versusConcurrent and final evaluation of CSR programmes and projects shall be
conducted by the Company.
The Company shall conduct Impact Assessments of its CSR projects as
stipulated in the Act, together with the Rules promulgated thereunder,
through one or more independent agencies identified through a
transparent and accountable process.
The Company shall undertake comprehensive compilation of programmes and
projects in Digital Formats, Audio / Video Recording, Social Media, Printed Material, etc.

15
7.2.7 ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT
7.2.8 DISCLOSURE
7.2.9 REPORTING
END OF DOCUMENT
Programmatic and Financial Accounting of all programs and projects shall
be undertaken. Accounting and Audit guidelines shall be followed as
mandated/approved by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of
India or as may be prescribed by the concerned Competent Authority in
the Government of India.
Disclosure on CSR shall be in accordance with the Act, read with the Rules made
thereunder and as applicable from time to time.
The Company shall undertake Mandatory Reporting in accordance with
the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
7.2.10 Effective Date and Amendments
Any amendment to the Act and/or Rules issued by the Government from
time to time shall be deemed to be suitably incorporated from the date
these are applicable to the Company.


HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED






DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY


Effective Date	:	May 11, 2017
 

REVISION HISTORY


Version	Description	Effective Date	Approved By
1.0	HCL Dividend Distribution Policy	May 11, 2017	The Board of Directors in its meeting held on
May 9-11, 2017
2.0	HCL Dividend Distribution Policy	January 14,
2022	The Board of Directors in its meeting held on
January 14, 2022
 
1.	Preface	

The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of HCL Technologies Limited (the “Company”) has adopted the ‘Dividend Distribution Policy’ (the “Policy”) of the Company with regard to the determination of criteria to be considered by the Board before recommending the final dividend to the shareholders and/or declaring the interim dividend by the Board. The Policy is framed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “Listing Regulations”).


2.	Background and Applicability	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its Notification dated July 08, 2016 has amended the Listing Regulations by inserting Regulation 43A in order to make it mandatory to have a Dividend Distribution Policy in place by the top five hundred listed companies based on their market capitalization calculated as on the 31st day of March of every year.

The Company being one of the top five hundred listed companies as per the criteria mentioned above, has approved and adopted this Policy at the meeting of its Board of Directors held on May 9-11, 2017, being the effective date of the Policy.

3.	Purpose, Objectives and Scope	

The Policy sets out the circumstances and different factors for consideration by the Board at the time of taking decisions of distribution of dividend or of retention of profits, in the interest of providing transparency to the shareholders. The Policy also aims to ensure the right balance between the quantum of dividend paid and the amount of profits retained in the business for various purposes.
The Policy is not an alternative to the decision of the Board for recommending/ declaring dividend, which takes into consideration all the relevant circumstances enumerated hereunder or other factors as may be decided by the Board.

The Policy reflects the intent of the Company to reward its shareholders by sharing a portion of its profits after retaining sufficient funds for growth of the Company. The Company shall pursue this Policy, to pay, subject to the circumstances and factors enlisted herein, dividend, which shall be consistent with the performance of the Company over the years.


4.	Factors to be considered before recommending dividend	
The Board will consider the following factors before recommending dividend to the shareholders of the Company:
 
A.	Financial / Internal Factors
1.	Financial performanceof the Company for the year for which dividend is recommended, including the free cash flow generated and the cash flow position;
2.	Any interim dividend paid;
3.	Accumulated reserves;
4.	Dividend payout trends (the dividend payout ratio will be calculated as a percentage of dividend (including dividend tax) recommended for the year to the net profit for that year);
5.	Financial requirements of the Company such as capital expenditure, working capital or other requirements;
6.	Business expansion and growth including acquisitions, mergers/demergers;
7.	Investments in subsidiaries/associates of the Company;
8.	Tax implications if any, on distribution of dividends;
9.	Cost of raising funds from alternate sources of capital;
10.	Likelihood of crystallization of contingent liabilities, if any;
11.	Such other factors and/or material events which the Board may consider.
B.	External Factors

1.	Macro-economic environment;
2.	Industry outlook;
3.	Shareholders’ expectations;
4.	Capital markets;
5.	Cost of external financing;
6.	Government policies, industry specific rulings & regulatory provisions; including policies adopted by the countries where the Company conducts its business or gets its business from;
7.	Prevailing legal requirements, regulatory conditions or restrictions laid down under the applicable laws including tax laws;
8.	Dividend pay-out ratios of companies in the same industry.



5.	Dividend Eligibility	

The Company has only one class of equity shareholders and does not have any issued preference share capital. Therefore, dividend declared will be distributed among all the shareholders, based on their shareholding on the record date. The Shareholders can waive/forgo the right to receive dividend by giving an advance notice which will be considered at the time of declaration / recommendation of dividend.
 
 
The shareholders of the Company may not expect dividend in the following circumstances, subject to the discretion of the Board:
1.	Proposed expansion plans requiring higher capital allocation;
2.	Decision to undertake any acquisition(s), amalgamation(s), merger(s), joint venture(s), etc. which requires significant capital outflow;
3.	Requirement of higher working capital for the purpose of business of the Company;
4.	Utilization of surplus cash generated during the financial year in entirety for alternative forms of distribution such as buy-back of securities; or
5.	In the event of loss or inadequacy of profit.



7.	Utilization of Retained Earnings	
The retained earnings of the Company may be used in any of the following ways:

1.	Capital expenditure for working capital;
2.	Organic and/or inorganic growth;
3.	Investment in new business(es) and/or additional investment in existing business(es);
4.	Declaration of dividend;
5.	Capitalization;
6.	Buy back of shares;
7.	General corporate purposes, including contingencies;
8.	Correcting the capital structure;
9.	Such other criteria’s as the Board may deem fit from time to time; or
10.	Any other usage as permitted under applicable laws / regulations.

The Company would utilise the retained earnings of the Company in a manner which is beneficial to the interest of the Company and its stakeholders.



8.	Parameters with regard to various classes of shares	

Presently, the share capital of the Company comprises of equity shares only. In the absence of any other class of shares, the entire distributable profit for the purpose of declaration of dividend is considered for the equity shareholders.

The Policy shall be suitably revisited at the time of issue of any new class of shares depending upon the nature and guidelines thereof.
 
9.	Types of Dividend	

The Companies Act, 2013 deals with two types of dividend – Interim and Final.

A.	Interim Dividend:

Interim dividend is the dividend declared by the Board between two Annual General Meetings as and when considered appropriate. The Act authorizes the Board to declare interim dividend(s) during any financial year out of the profits for the financial year in which the dividend is sought to be declared and / or out of the surplus in the profit and loss account.
Normally, the Board considers declaring interim dividends on a quarterly basis, after the finalization of the quarterly financial statements. The Board may also recommend special dividend as and when it deems fit.

B.	Final Dividend:

Final dividend is the dividend recommended for the financial year at the time of approval of the Annual Financial Statements. The Board shall have the power to recommend final dividend to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company. The decision whether or not to recommend the final dividend shall be made by the Board after considering the interim dividend(s) declared during the year.

10.	General	

The Board may, from time to time, amend, modify, repeal or revise any or all provisions of this Policy. This Policy is also subject to modification, if any, in accordance with the guidelines / clarifications as may be issued from time to time by relevant statutory and regulatory authorities.

If the Board proposes to declare dividend on the basis of criteria in addition to those specified in the Policy, or proposes to modify the criteria, it shall disclose such changes along with the rationale for the same on the website of the Company and in the Annual Report.

In the event of a conflict between this Policy and the external regulations, the regulations shall prevail.

11.	Disclosure of Policy	

The Policy will be available on the website of the Company www.hcltech.com and will also be disclosed in the Annual Report.







Employee Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Policy


















HCL Technologies Ltd. 2012, All rights reserved.


No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, either electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written permission.

 
Revision History

Version	From	To	Description	Author	Reviewed & Approved By
1.0	1st January 12	First Copy	C&B Team	C&B Head
 
Table of Contents


Topic Name	Page Number
Objective	3
Scope and Applicability	3
Policy details	3
HCL Core Values	4
EFCS Culture at HCL	5
What is expected of everyone	6
Use of Company time, equipment and other benefits	7
Privacy	12
Conflict of Interest/ Anti Bribery	12
HCLT’s Employees	14
HCLT and its Customers	16
HCLT and its Suppliers	17
Compliance and Discipline	18
Reporting Mechanism	19
Waiver and Amendment of the COBEC	21
Form of Acknowledgement & Receipt of COBEC	21
 
Policy Details

Objective
At HCLT Technologies (hereafter referred as the “Company” or “HCLT”) we strongly believe in the principle of Trust through Transparency and Accountability. This forms the foundation of the HCLT Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (hereafter known as the “COBEC” or the “Code”).

Scope & Applicability

All policies, practices, processes, business dealings at HCLT are governed by the COBEC. The COBEC covers all employees, third party vendors, consultants and customers across the world, whether operating out of any HCLT location or otherwise.
All relationships - with employees, customers, partners, stakeholders, suppliers etc need to be built on the foundations of trust and transparency. This is what we believe in and practice every day at HCLT.
It further acts as a guide to all HCLT employees and various stakeholders on the values, ethics and business principles expected of them in their personal and professional conduct. HCLT takes cognizance of the fact that it and/ or its subsidiaries are growing rapidly across geographies and this growth must at all times be aligned with the spirit of the COBEC and the ethos, brand and reputation of HCLT.
The COBEC cannot address every question or every possible circumstance and hence should be read in conjunction with applicable laws and policies and procedures of the Company.

Policy Details


Definition: In this document, we use the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company” and “HCLT” to refer to HCLT Technologies and/ or its subsidiaries. The terms “you,” “your”, “employee” and “HCLite” refer to every person who works at the Company including the senior management, or serves on its Board of Directors. The term “COBEC” or the “Code” means this document, as we may amend or add to it from time to time.
 
HCL Core Values:

	To uphold the dignity of the individual: In line with HCLT’s „Employee First’ philosophy, wherein employees are the organization’s main focus, we place significant emphasis on the respect and dignity of every HCLT employee. HCLT employees are empowered to drive innovation, transforming client engagements and markedly improving client satisfaction. HCLT believes in valuing employees as individuals (not resources), upholding the dignity of all people and displaying tolerance and respect.
	To honor all commitments: We keep our commitments to each other and with every stakeholder.
	Commitment to quality, innovation and growth in every endeavor: HCLT is committed to supporting quality processes and employee productivity in a culture and working environment in which they feel appreciated and in which innovation is allowed to thrive.
	To be responsible corporate citizens: We believe in encouraging a sense of social responsibility and to give back to society. We take pride in being a company with a strong social conscience. We firmly believe that every drop counts and every step aimed at helping the community is an important step. Our commitment to make a positive difference to the community and the environment in which we operate is a sustained effort and not just a one off initiative.

EFCS CULTURE AT WORK


We create value in one very specific place: the interface between our HCLT employees and our customers. This is called the “value zone.” The philosophy is about placing employees first and customers second to activate the value zone - the place where the frontline employees interact with customers and create real value for them. This recognizes employees as the strategic elements, turns the management structure upside down, democratizes HCLT’s functions and way of working. Every employee who works in the value zone is capable of creating more or less value. The whole intent of Employees First is to do everything that can enable those employees to create the most possible value. This approach has led us to take a number of actions to turn the organizational pyramid upside down. In other words, we want management to be as accountable to the people in the value zone as the people in the value zone are to management.
Our recruitment and promotion policies are based on meritocracy and ability to learn, adapt and assimilate change. We ensure equal opportunities irrespective of gender, nationality, disability,
 
sexual orientation, religion or ethnicity in hiring, pay and/ or career advancement. We focus on promoting workplace diversity and have specific supplier vendor diversity programs.

What is Expected of Everyone Comply with the Code and the Law
Understand this Code and comply with the Code and the law wherever you are. Use good judgment and avoid even the appearance of improper behaviour. In case of any conflict between this Code and any local laws and/ or regulations, including professional obligations, the local laws and/ or regulations will prevail and you must follow the law rather than this Code to the extent of such conflict. If local custom or policy varies with this Code, HCLT expects you to follow this Code.

Consider Your Actions, and Ask for Guidance


If ever in doubt about a course of conduct, ask yourself:

	Is it consistent with the Code?
	Is it ethical?
	Is it legal?
	Will it reflect well on me and the Company?
	Would I want to read about it in the newspaper?

If the answer is “No” to any of these questions, don’t do it.


If you are still uncertain, ask for guidance. The Code tries to capture many of the situations that employees will encounter, but cannot address every circumstance.

You can seek help from any of the following:


	Human Resources
	Management
	Company legal counsel or senior finance personnel supporting your business
	Ethics & Compliance Office (CEO’s Office)
 

USE OF COMPANY TIME, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS


Business and Financial Records

Ensure the accuracy of all Company business and financial records. These include not only financial accounts, but other records such as quality reports, time records, expense reports and submissions such as benefits claim forms and resumes.

Ensuring accurate and complete business and financial records is every HCLite’s responsibility, not just a role for accounting and finance personnel. Accurate recordkeeping and reporting reflects on the Company’s reputation and credibility, and ensures that the Company meets its legal and regulatory obligations.

	Always record and classify transactions in the proper accounting period and in the appropriate account and department. Do not delay or accelerate the recording of revenue or expenses to meet budgetary goals.
	Estimates and accruals must be supported by appropriate documentation and be based on
	your best judgment.
	Ensure that all reports to regulatory authorities are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
	Never falsify any document.
	Do not distort the true nature of any transaction.
	Never enable another person’s efforts to evade taxes or subvert local currency laws. For this reason, payments generally should be made only to the person or firm that actually provided the goods or services. Payments should be made in the supplier’s home country, where it does business, or where the goods were sold or services provided, unless the supplier legitimately has assigned payment or sold its accounts receivable to another entity.
	Strive for Accuracy: Employees must strive to be accurate when preparing any information
	for the Company, but honest mistakes occasionally will happen. Only intentional efforts to misrepresent or improperly record transactions, or otherwise to falsify a Company business record, are Code violations.
 
EXAMPLES

Medical Coverage
An employee attempted to obtain Company medical coverage for her adult children by submitting a form claiming that her children were fulltime students. In fact, her children were no longer students. The employee falsified Company records.

Revenue Recognition
A sales manager estimated that he would not meet his targets for the month. To make up the difference, he hired an external warehouse to receive product and then recorded shipments to the warehouse as sales. The sales manager falsified financial records.

Company Assets


Protect the Company’s assets, and use those assets in the manner intended. Do not use Company assets for your personal benefit or the benefit of anyone other than the Company.

	Use common sense. For example, the occasional personal phone call or e-mail from your workplace is acceptable. Excessive personal calls or e-mail is a misuse of Company assets.
	Company policy may allow additional personal use of certain assets, such as a Company car. Always check relevant local policies to ensure that you are using Company assets as intended.

Theft of Company assets—whether physical theft such as unauthorized removal of Company product, equipment or information, or theft through embezzlement or intentional misreporting of time or expenses—may result in termination and criminal prosecution. The Company treats workplace theft of assets belonging to other employees the same way it treats theft of Company assets.

The use of Company assets outside of your Company responsibilities— such as using your Company work product in an outside venture, or using Company materials or equipment to support personal interests—requires prior written approval from your HR Manager. You must have this approval renewed annually if you continue to use the asset outside of work.
 
	Do not engage in personal activities during work hours that interfere with or prevent you from fulfilling your job responsibilities.
	Do not use Company computers and equipment for outside businesses, or for illegal or unethical activities such as gambling, pornography or other offensive subject matter.
	Do not take for yourself any opportunity for financial gain that you learn about because of your position at the Company, or through the use of Company property or information.

Examples of Company Assets : Company money, Company product, Employees’ time at work and work product, Computer systems and software, Telephones, Wireless communication devices, Photocopiers, Tickets to concerts or sporting events ,Company vehicles, Proprietary information and Company trademarks

EXAMPLES


A Personal Favour
An employee used Company computers and equipment as well as time at work, to design and print wedding invitations and birth announcements as a favor for other employees. The employee misused Company assets.

Teaching
Q: I am a marketing manager and have volunteered to teach a course on marketing at a local college. I believe that my students would benefit from a discussion of how the Company developed several marketing campaigns. Can I discuss this work in class?

A: Only with prior approval from your HR Manager. The development of marketing campaigns is a Company work product and a Company asset. Much of this work may be proprietary, and may not be appropriate to reveal outside the Company.

Personal Assistance
A manager persistently asked an administrative assistant to take care of the manager’s personal business on Company time, such as picking up dry cleaning, balancing a personal check book and shopping for personal gifts. The manager misused the assistant’s work time, which is a Company asset.
 

Ticket Swap
A marketing employee had access to Company tickets to sporting events to be used for consumer promotions. The employee sent some of the tickets to an acquaintance working at a hotel chain in exchange for free hotel rooms for the employee’s personal use. The employee misused Company assets.

Use of Information


Safeguard the Company’s non public information, which includes everything from contracts and pricing information to marketing plans, technical specifications and employee information.

Non-public Information


	Do not disclose non public information to anyone outside the Company, including to family and friends, except when disclosure is required for business purposes. Even then, take appropriate steps, such as execution of a confidentiality agreement, to prevent misuse of the information.
	Do not disclose non public information to others inside the Company unless they have a business reason to know. Employees are obligated to protect the Company’s non public information at all times, including outside of the workplace and working hours, and even after employment ends.
	Retain or discard Company records in accordance with the Company’s record retention
process. Company legal counsel occasionally may issue “litigation hold” notices regarding retention of records in the case of actual or threatened litigation or government investigation. Employees must abide by the directions contained in these notices, as failure to do so could subject the Company and employees to serious legal risks.

What Is Non public Information?


It is any information that the Company has not disclosed or made generally available to the public. Examples include information related to: Employees, Inventions, Contracts, Strategic and business plans, Major management changes, new product launches, Mergers and acquisitions, Technical specifications, Pricing Proposals, Financial data and Product costs
 
SECURITIES AND INSIDER TRADING

Insider trading is prohibited by the law and is a clear violation of the COBEC. Insider Trading generally involves the act of subscribing or buying or selling of Company’s Shares/ Securities, when in possession of any unpublished price sensitive information about the Company. It also involves disclosing any unpublished price sensitive information about the Company to others (“tipping”) who could subscribe or buy or sell the Company’s Shares/ Securities. Insider Trading invokes severe civil and criminal penalties not only on the insider but also on the Company in certain circumstances under the Regulations issued in India under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Act, 1992 and/ or other similar regulations abroad.

The interest of investors and other stakeholders is safeguarded by not getting involved in insider trading or any other undesirable and offensives practices. Please refer to the Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading uploaded in Natasha for more details.

Further employees are expected to strictly adhere to the „no trading’ periods as and when specified by the Company on the intranet site www.myhcl.com

	The No Trading Window is declared 14 days prior to the declaration of the quarterly results.
	No designated employee / director can deal in more than 1,000 shares in a day without prior clearance valid for 1 week from compliance officer (validity for 1 week then need to take fresh clearance)
	Designated employee / Directors and their dependence shall not enter into an opposite transaction
	There is also a penalty for non compliance to the Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading. For details please refer to the same.

PRIVACY


The Company respects the privacy of all its employees, business partners and consumers. We must handle personal data responsibly and in compliance with all applicable privacy laws.

Employees who handle the personal data of others must:


	Act in accordance with applicable law;
 

	Act in accordance with any relevant contractual obligations;
	Collect, use and process such information only for legitimate business purposes;
	Limit access to the information to those who have a legitimate business purpose for seeing the information; and
	Take care to prevent unauthorized disclosure.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST / ANTI BRIBERY


Actual / Potential Conflict


A conflict of interest exists where the personal interests or benefits of the employee interferes with the business interests or benefits of the Company. A conflict of interest can arise when an HCLite:

	Takes an action or has an interest that may make it difficult for him/ her to execute work objectively and effectively; or
	Receives improper personal benefits as a result of his position in the Company.
	Vendor Selection

While creating the requirement to seek Company approval for engaging in any not-for-profit activity outside of work, HCL does not intend to stop community activities of employees and encourages it, though needs it to be pre-approved by Corporate HR.
Employees are expected to avoid conflicts of interest between their personal interests and those of HCLT. Employees should promptly and fully disclose to the employee’s manager and/or supervisor any situation that could reasonably present either an actual conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. Any activity that may even appear to represent a conflict of interest should be disclosed and avoided. Every situation is unique and determination of an actual conflict will depend on such factors as job position and the extent of the employee’s involvement.

Outside Activities


Employees shall not participate in any outside activity (including as an officer, director, owner, consultant, or employee) that could or appears to interfere with the performance of their or other employees’ duties and responsibilities, affect their independent and objective judgment, compete with an HCLT business, or discredit HCLT. Each employee’s primary business obligation should be
 
to HCLT, and personal business affairs or outside employment should be kept separate and distinct from those of HCLT in every respect and not be based on Company property, information or position, and not divert business opportunities away from HCLT. Any revenue generation activity is not permitted. Any other remuneration received has to be declared if it is received in a company sponsored event which you attended.

An employee’s outside activities should not be conducted on HCLT property and not involve the use of any HCLT assets, materials, property, or the services of other HCLT employees, or involve the employee’s activities during HCLT work hours. Exceptions may be granted by the employee’s manager and/or supervisor, where the situation warrants.

Employees should not use HCLT prestige or influence, directly or indirectly, for personal gain or benefit. In this regard, an employee, while on the job or as an HCLT representative, should not solicit customers to hire or contract with him/her for outside work of any kind.


Anti-Corruption and Anti Bribery


We comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws as may be applicable wherever we do business. Company’s anti bribery policy including hospitality, “offset” issues, employment of relatives, guidance on gifts, political/ charitable contributions and extortion/ blackmail responses are contained in its Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption Policy. The same has been uploaded in Natasha as well as in www.hcltech.com and can be and should be reviewed for more details.

HCLT’S EMPLOYEES


Employees First: At HCLT we are guided by a philosophy we refer to as Employees First, Customers Second (“EFCS”) that places the needs of employees before the needs of customers. This approach has led to greater engagement levels and thereby higher customer delight.

EFCS encompasses a variety of elements created with the objective of providing a truly unique and democratic work environment to employees. By treating employees as partners and participants in the Company’s success, every individual within the Company becomes responsible for transforming, thinking and providing value to the customers. To further this stance, HCLT has an open door policy encouraging its  employees to bring up issues of infringement or violation of the COBEC
 
fearlessly. HCLites have access	to any level of the management including the CEO. One may consult the legal or the HR team for guidance as well.

Equal Opportunity: HCLT is an Equal Opportunity Employer and endeavors to treat all potential candidates and employees equally without regard to their race, religion, sex, colour, age, national origin, marital status, pregnancy (including child birth), sexual orientation, medical condition, disability etc. HCLT further provides equal opportunities in employment, upgrading, promotion or transfer,	recruitment	or	recruitment	advertising,	layoff or	termination,	wages Or other compensation, selection for training, including apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, and/ or on the job training. Ensuring and maintaining a work environment free of harassment and intimidation and coercion at all facilities where HCLT employees function, is therefore high on the priority list. HCLT will ensure adherence to the laws of the land with regard to employment norms and will not indulge in practices such as employing child labour, bonded labour etc. Please refer to the policy on Equal Employment Opportunity available in Natasha.

Recruitment Decisions should be based on the candidate’s merits e.g education, prior experience and qualifications. This includes the individual’s skills, performance, values, leadership and other job related criteria. All employment related decisions should be taken without regard to a person’s race, sex including pregnancy, color, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, medical condition, political opinion or any other status protected by applicable law and policy.

Workplace and Sexual Harassment: The Company has a strong, clear and documented stand against any form of harassment at the workplace. Harassment as a result of discrimination or which is sexual in nature and has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment is not allowed at HCLT.

Allowing Harassment to Continue: Managers and/or supervisors who allow workplace harassment to continue or fail to take appropriate corrective action upon becoming aware of the harassment may be considered a party to the offense, even though they may not have engaged in such behavior themselves. Thus, they are also held responsible for such misconduct and subject to disciplinary action as per the COBEC. Please refer to the Secure policy available in Natasha. Provide a work environment free of workplace and sexual harassment.
 
Drugs and Weapons: The Company strictly prohibits any person entering the Company premises under the influence of or in possession of any intoxicating substance (including alcohol) or any other drugs. Further, any person in possession of unauthorized weapons, illegal firearms, weapons, or explosives will not be permitted to enter the Company premises. However the trained security personnel may possess authorized weapons as mandated.

Respect the Privacy rights of employees by using, maintaining and transferring personal data in accordance with HCLT’s employment data protection standards and related procedures. You are required to maintain the secrecy of and not to divulge or communicate in any manner, any information regarding your remuneration to any other staff members of the Company except to your immediate superior.
It is the obligation of the employee to furnish true information vis-à-vis:


	Own profile (e.g. education details, work experience, last drawn salary, etc.)
	Time, expense (amount, purpose, period), compensation related allowances, etc.
	Complaints (including Whistleblower issues)
	Others


Use of Cellular Phones and Wireless Devices


All employees are prohibited from using cell phones or other wireless devices (e.g., pagers, Blackberry or PDA devices, laptops, etc.) while conducting HCLT business in situations, including but not limited to driving a vehicle, in which it appears to the employee that the use of such devices is likely to increase the risk of injury to an employee or to the public. Employees are encouraged to use a hands-free device or to safely stop the vehicle before using a cell phone or other wireless device while driving. Under no circumstances are employees allowed to place themselves or others at risk to fulfill HCLT’s business needs.

Intellectual Property


Employees should not infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others and should use proprietary material of others only under valid licenses & in accordance with the terms of such licenses. Any unauthorized receipt or use of the intellectual property of others may expose HCL to civil & criminal liabilities and employees are advised to strictly adhere by all HCL policies & procedures, including those governing the appropriate handling of unsolicited intellectual property.
 
Employees are advised to refer to guidelines as issued by the Information Security, Risk Management and Information Technology Departments from time to time

Environmental Protection

Environmental commitments that achieve regulatory compliance are interwoven into every level and every activity of HCLT. The Company is committed to environmental protection. Employees are expected to comply with environmental regulations and maintain the Company’s standards.

HCLT AND ITS CUSTOMERS


HCLT believes in helping its customers to shift paradigms and start revolutions. We seek to understand our clients' expectations and strive to meet and exceed them. We collaborate with our clients to shape exceptional opportunities of value that can be predicted, measured and repeated. We also conduct	 business with national governments and government-owned enterprises irrespective of the	geographical location. In every instance, an HCLite must apply the highest ethical standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations, including certain special requirements associated with government transactions.

	Delivering Value: Our client relationships are rooted in trust and delivering real value. We base our advice, recommendations and solutions on objective criteria and the needs of the client, not on convenience or self-interest. This means we will decline an opportunity if we believe we cannot deliver value and we will tell the client why. Because we understand that the organization is our client— rather than any individual employee or officer—we are open and transparent in our relationships with people at all levels in the organization.
	Delivering the Committed : We build business relationships that endure and prosper because they are based on mutual respect and trust. Because HCLT's size, scope and talent
mix often require different people to sell, negotiate and deliver our services, we do not make promises the Company cannot keep.Through available internal resources or by collaborating with others, we ensure we have the skills and capabilities necessary to deliver the work we sell.
	Understand our clients’ Code Of Conduct: We understand that our clients have codes of conduct comparable to our own. We recognize that in certain industries and sectors, like financial services, or while working with governments or clients owned or controlled by governments, rules of conduct can be more stringent than our own. We seek to understand not only our
 
clients’ business requirements, but also how our clients expect us to interact with their people— and we comply with these expectations. We do not rely on individual client employee or even officer to tell us a client’s rule which we should understand ourselves.
	WE REQUIRE anyone providing goods or services to HCLT on a government project or contract (such as consultants, sales representatives, distributors or suppliers) to agree to comply with the intent of this COBEC.
	Be truthful and accurate when dealing with customers including government officials and agencies.
	Adopt processes that ensure reports, certifications, statements and proposals are current, accurate and complete and that contract requirements are adequately identified and communicated to the responsible parties.
	Do not make any unauthorized substitutions for contracted goods and services or deviate from contract requirements without the written approval of the authorized customer representative.
	You may not be employed by, or otherwise provide services for or receive payment from, any customer, supplier or competitor of the Company.

HCLT AND ITS SUPPLIERS


HCLT’s relationships with suppliers are based on lawful, efficient and fair practices. We expect our suppliers to obey the laws that require them to treat employees fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment and protect the quality of the environment.

	Comply with applicable laws and government regulations covering supplier relationships.


	Do Business only with suppliers that comply with local and other applicable legal requirements. HCLT believes in meritocracy requirement (no discrimination) vis-à-vis vendor selection.

	Safeguard HCLT’s Confidential And Proprietary Information with a confidentiality agreement, and safeguard any supplier-provided information protected by any confidentiality agreement.
	Safeguard “personal data” obtained from suppliers.
 
COMPLIANCE AND DISCIPLINE

Any standards become irrelevant unless there are clear mechanisms to deal with the violation of these standards. We would be negligent if we did not state categorically that deviations from the COBEC will not be tolerated. Disciplinary action will be taken against any individual violating these standards. Specifically, disciplinary action will be taken against any employee who is found to have:

	authorized, condoned, participated in or concealed actions that are in violation of the COBEC;
	against any manager who disregards or approves a violation, or who, through lack of diligence in supervision, fails to prevent or report violations;
	against managers who retaliate, directly or indirectly, or encourage others to retaliate against an employee who reports a potential violation of these standards.

Since these standards are very important to our basic existence, the response to a deviation from them can lead including and upto termination of employment.
The following action(s) may be taken depending on the severity of the situation:

	Reprimand
	Verbal warning
	Written warning
	Probation
	Suspension/ Blacklisting
	Termination of employment/ business contract
	Litigation (civil and/or criminal)
	Imposition of damages
	Any other penal remedy that may be available to the company under the applicable law of the country where the act has been committed/ any other such actions as may be warranted depending on the circumstances of the case.


The COBEC places HCLT alongside those global corporations which emphasize the importance of quality business conduct and solid business ethics. Our standards can only be met with the cooperation of HCLT’s employees, long recognized as HCLT’s most valuable asset. Through their efforts, HCLT and the COBEC set the standard for others to follow.
 
REPORTING MECHANISM

It is clarified at this stage, that the employee has the option to initiate action at any of the avenues provided below and depending on the circumstances, other appropriate/ reasonable measures may also be used, under exceptional situations.

The various avenues provided are:


	For lodging any protected disclosure as per the Whistleblower Policy you can write to whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in.Postal address: CEO’s Office, HCL Technologies Limited, A-9, Sector 3, Noida- 201301. Please be very specific in your complaint.

	For any complaint of sexual harassment you can write to secure@hcl.com

	For any risk to be reported you can write to risk@hcl.com

	For any compliance related issue you can write to 'compliance-officer@hcl.com'


	For any health and safety concerns you can write to the Health Safety and Environment Department: sustainability@hcl.com
Any violation of the COBEC by any other employee, contractor, third party vendor, consultant or any other person associated with HCLT in any capacity, regardless of position and seniority must be reported without any fear of retribution verbally or in writing to any of the following:
1.	Immediate reporting manager or the Human Resources Head the respective entity or Geo;
2.	The L1 Head of the respective entity; or
3.	The L4 Delivery Head Investigation Process
	All such matters get referred to an Ethics/ Investigation Committee especially constituted for this purpose comprising of Risk Officer, Compliance Officer, Legal Personnel and HR and Administration personnel.
 
	Complaints/ suspicions/ incidents of violations of law, company policies, COBEC, etc. must be reported to this Committee
	The Committee must undertake a preliminary assessment of the complaint/ suspicion/ incident
	For detailed investigations, the Committee may form a team of personnel (in-house/ external service provider) with the required skill set (knowledge, expertise, authority, etc.) for the investigation. The investigation team would have a reporting responsibility to the Committee Only
	The Committee will decide on the appropriate action based on findings from the investigation.

The Committee will report incidents of violations of law, company policies, COBEC, etc to the CEO, Audit Committee, Board of Directors, etc. as per the defined periodicity or urgency/ importance of the case.

The findings of the enquiry may be disseminated to concerned personnel, keeping in mind the need of preserving the confidentiality and the human dignity of the individual against whom the proceedings were conducted.

The investigation committee will record all the minutes of the above transactions and communicate to the entity/ geo of the outcome. The entity/ geo’s nominated manager will take the corrective action and report the same to investigation committee, which in turn will report the same to the CEO and make an entry in the personal file of the individual against whom the action has been taken.

If no immediate action is recommended by the investigation committee, Corporate Human Resources Department will then observe the behavior of the above individual’s for the next six (6) months. If no untoward incident is reported, the case can be closed. However, if the individual is dissatisfied with the actions taken by the personnel as detailed above, he/ she could choose to approach the CEO directly. The individual against whom actions have been outlined can also appeal the findings of the enquiry to the CEO directly.

The CEO can be provided with details of each of these cases as and when required. The same shall be documented for review for future needs.
 
WAIVER AND AMENDMENT OF THE COBEC

We are committed to continuously reviewing and updating our polices and procedures. Therefore this	document is subject to modification from time to time. Any amendment or waiver of any provision of the COBEC must be approved in writing by the Company’s Board of Directors. Amendments need to be posted on all applicable regulatory filing or other areas with the nature of amendments.



Form of Acknowledgement & Receipt of COBEC


I have read and received a copy of COBEC. I understand the standards and policies contained herein and understand there may be additional policies laws specific to my work areas. I hereby agree to comply with COBEC in letter and spirit.


Employee Name & Code:





Signature:











The company reserves the right to alter, append or withdraw this policy either in part or in full based on management’s discretion.




HCL Technologies Limited

CODE OF PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES FOR FAIR DISCLOSURE OF UNPUBLISHED PRICE SENSITIVE INFORMATION
(“FAIR DISCLOSURE CODE”)
 
Revision History




Version	Description	Effective date	Approved by

1.0	
This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Code for Corporate Disclosures.’	
May 30, 2015	
Board of Directors vide Circular Resolution dated May 30, 2015

1.1	
This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Fair Disclosure Code.’	
August 3, 2016	
Board of Directors vide Resolution passed in the Board Meeting dated August 1-3, 2016
1.2	This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Fair Disclosure Code.’	May 2, 2018	Board of Directors vide Resolution passed in the Board Meeting dated April 30 – May 2, 2018
1.3	This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Fair Disclosure Code.’	April 01, 2019	Board of Directors vide Resolution passed by Circulation dated April 4, 2019
1.4	This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Fair Disclosure Code.’	March 16, 2020	Board of Directors vide Resolution passed by Circulation dated March 16, 2020
1.5	This `Fair Disclosure Code’ replaces the earlier `Fair Disclosure Code.’	October 14,
2024	Board of Directors vide Resolution passed in the Board   Meeting   dated
October 14, 2024.
 
1.	Background

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) formulated the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations 2015 on 15th January 2015 and these regulations came into force on the 120th day from the publication in the official gazette i.e. on May 15, 2015. As per these Regulations, a company listed on any Indian Stock Exchange shall initiate and implement a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information (“the Code”) for prevention of insider trading.

Further, owing to the amendments brought in by the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, the Board of Directors has approved the revised code “Code of Practices and Procedures for fair disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information” which amends the earlier “Code of Practices and Procedures for fair disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information”. The revised code hereinafter is referred as the “Fair Disclosure Code”.


2.	Definitions

2.1	“Act” means the Securities Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992).

2.2	“Board” means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.3	“Chief Investor Relations Officer” or “CIO” means the Head of Investor Relations function.
2.4	“Company” means HCL Technologies Limited.
2.5	“Company Secretary” means the company secretary of the Company appointed in terms of the resolution passed by the Board of the Company in compliance of the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 / Companies Act, 2013.

2.6	“Compliance Officer” means Company Secretary of HCL Technologies Limited or any other senior officer, designated so from time to time, appointed in compliance with the provisions of SEBI Insider Trading Regulations.

2.7	“SEBI” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

2.8	“SEBI Insider Trading Regulations” shall mean the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and any amendments thereto from time to time.

2.9	“Unpublished Price sensitive information” means any information relating to the Company or its securities, directly or indirectly that is not generally available, but which upon becoming generally available, is likely to materially affect the price of the securities of the Company and shall,
 
ordinarily including but not restricted to, information relating to the following:

i)	Periodical audited or un-audited financial results of the Company;
ii)	Intended declaration of dividends (both interim and final) by the Company;
iii)	Change in capital structure including buy-back of securities;
iv)	Any amalgamation, mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions/takeovers, delisting proceedings, disposal and material expansion of business and such other transactions involving the Company;
v)	Change in Key Managerial Personnel;
vi)	Any other matter as may be prescribed under the Regulations and / or Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time and/or Corporate Laws to be price sensitive, from time to time.


Words and expressions used and not defined in this Code but defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 or the Companies Act, 2013 and rules and regulations made thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those legislations.

3.	Procedure for dissemination of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information

3.1	All unpublished price sensitive information shall be handled on a need-to-know basis.

3.2	The Company will make prompt public disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that would impact price discovery no sooner than credible and concrete information comes into being in order to make such information generally available.

3.3	The Company will make uniform and universal dissemination of unpublished price sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure. In order to ensure universal dissemination, all unpublished price sensitive information will first be communicated to the Stock Exchanges where the securities of the Company are listed before this information is released to the investors, research analysts, media or any section of the public.

 
3.4	




4.	

4.1.
 
The text of all communications covering unpublished price sensitive information to the Stock Exchanges shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director or Chief Financial Officer before release.

Sharing of UPSI for legitimate purpose

The UPSI can be shared only on a need-to-know basis and as per policy for determination of legitimate purpose as mentioned in Annexure 1, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations
 
which shall include the following:

I.	Sharing of UPSI in the ordinary course of business by any Insider, Designated Person, or by any Authorized person with existing or proposed partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants

II.	Sharing of UPSI for any other genuine or reasonable purpose as may be determined by the Company

III.	Sharing of UPSI for any other purpose as may be prescribed under the Securities Regulations or Company Law or any other law for the time being in force, in this behalf, as may be amended from time to time

Provided that such sharing should not be carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of SEBI Insider Trading Regulations.

5	ISSUE OF NOTICE TO THE RECIPIENT OF UPSI:

5.1	Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate purpose” shall be considered as an “insider” and due notice shall be given to such person making him aware of the duties and responsibilities attached to the receipt of such unpublished price sensitive information

6.	Chief Investors Relation Officer (“CIO”) and other Spokespersons

6.1	The CIO will deal with the dissemination and disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information. In addition to CIO, the following persons (“Authorised Spokespersons”) are also authorized to communicate with the Investors/media in co-ordination with the CIO:

i)	Chairperson
ii)	Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) & Managing Director (“MD”)
iii)	Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)
iv)	Head – External Communications

For any specific event or occasion one or more Company officials (including Vertical Heads, Delivery Heads and Business Heads) may be invited to interact with investors, research analysts and representatives of the media.

6.2	The Company Secretary in coordination with the CIO shall disseminate / disclose the information to the stock exchanges where the Securities of the Company are listed.
7.	Guidelines while dealing with Analysts (financial as well as industry), Investors, Customers and Media
 
7.1	All Company spokespersons shall ensure that information shared with Analysts (financial as well as industry), Investors, Customers and Media is not unpublished price sensitive information. Only information in the public domain (i.e. information which is already provided by the Company through published financials statements, press releases or is available on the Company’s web site) shall be provided. Discussion on any topic or issue or any data, which cannot be made public, shall be avoided.

7.2	Unanticipated questions raised by analysts, Investors and Media may be taken on record and a response given later. If the answer includes price sensitive information, a public announcement should be made before responding.

7.3	In case some unpublished price sensitive information gets disclosed selectively, inadvertently or otherwise, the same shall be brought to the notice of the CIO to enable him to make such information public at the earliest.

7.4	No Company Official will interact with analysts, financial market participants, Investors or any media representatives unless CIO (or his authorised representative) or any other Authorised Spokesperson of the Company is also present during such interaction.

7.5	Inquiries received from analysts, financial market participants, Investors or any media representatives in any department (other than the Investor Relations Department and the offices of any of the Authorized Spokespersons) must be forwarded to the CIO. Under no circumstances should any attempt be made to handle these inquiries without prior authorization from the CIO or an Authorized Spokesperson.


8.	Silent Period

8.1	During the period when the Trading Window is closed before the announcement of quarterly or annual financial results, any officer of the Company shall not discuss or comment on any aspect of financial performance of the Company to any member of the media in order to avoid any inadvertent disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information on selective basis.
The Trading Window shall generally be closed from 25th of the last month of the quarter for which results are required to be announced by the Company and shall reopen 48 (Forty-Eight) hours after the announcement of financial results by the Company.


9.	Procedure for Conference calls and analyst meets
9.1	Whenever, the company calls for a conference call, the CIO shall ensure adequate publicity of the event. A press release would be
 
sent prior to the conference call to the stock exchanges and hosted on the Company’s website covering the relevant details of the call (including Duration of the call, Number of ports, Access numbers, Reply number, Registration procedure, Contact person (for pass code), Web casting details).

9.2	Transcripts, Earnings presentation, Investors’ presentation and the web cast with analysts and investors shall be made available on the Company’s official website.


10.	Responding to market rumours

10.1	The CEO & MD and/or the CFO shall be responsible for deciding whether a public announcement is necessary for verifying or denying rumors and then making the disclosure. He shall give appropriate and fair response to the queries on news reports and requests for verification of market rumours by regulatory authorities.

10.2	The company will respond to the speculative reports that appear in the press or in the electronic media as per the Policy for Determination of Materiality of Event/ Information of the Company read with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. In order to protect the standing of the company, the response of the CIO, in each instance of a market rumour will be to neither affirm nor deny the rumour till such time an official position on the subject is developed in consultation with the CEO & MD and / or the CFO. However, if a rumour or a press report is likely to impact the business of the Company in a significant manner a suitable communication responding to market rumours shall be finalised in consultation with the CEO & MD and / or the CFO before dissemination to the Stock Exchanges and external agencies.


11.	Miscellaneous


11.1	The Company reserves all right to modify and/or amend this Code at any time.

11.2	The Company may form a Group comprising of senior executives to ensure compliances of policy for ‘Determination of legitimate purpose’ including determination of UPSI, legitimate purpose for sharing of UPSI, regular review of the policy and list of UPSI/legitimate purpose.


------xxxx-----
 
Annexure 1

POLICY FOR DETERMINATION OF LEGITIMATE PURPOSE FOR UPSI

1.	Preamble: The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (“PIT Amendment Regulations”) has mandated every listed Company to formulate "Policy for Determination of Legitimate Purpose" hereinafter referred to as the "Policy”, as apart of Fair Disclosure Code and is effective from 1st April 2019.

2.	Objective: The objective of this policy is to identify ‘Legitimate Purposes’ for performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations, which will be considered as exception for the purpose of procuring unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) relating to the Company or its listed securities.


3.	Meaning of Legitimate Purpose: “Legitimate Purpose” shall mean any purpose for which UPSI has been shared in the ordinary course of business or in the interest of the Company, on a need to-know basis. In this policy, the term “Legitimate Purpose” shall, inter alia, include:

•	Sharing of UPSI on need to know basis by an Insider with its partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants

•	Sharing of UPSI for any other genuine or reasonable purpose as may be determined by the Company

•	Sharing of UPSI for any other purpose as may be prescribed under the Securities Regulations or Company Law or any other law for the time being in force, in this behalf, as may be amended from time to time

Provided that such sharing has not been carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations.

Illustrative list of Legitimate Purposes
In following cases, the sharing of UPSI would be considered as having been shared for a Legitimate Purpose:

a)	Under any proceedings or pursuant to any order of courts or tribunals,

b)	For investigation, inquiry or request for information by statutory or governmental authorities or any other administrative body recognized by law,
c)	In compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules and requirements,
d)	Arising out of any contractual obligations entered by the Company set forth in any contract, agreement, arrangement, settlement, understanding or undertaking,

e)	Sharing the information with intermediaries and fiduciaries such as Auditors, Merchant Bankers, Management Consultants, Partners, Collaborators or Other Advisors or Consultants,

f)	Sharing information with Statutory Auditors, Secretarial Auditors, Internal Auditors or Cost Auditors while obtaining any certificate required for placing any transaction for approval before the Board.
 
g)	Sharing the relevant UPSI by Company or Promoters with business partners essential to fulfill the terms and conditions of a business contract with a client, vendor
4.	Sharing Of UPSI For Legitimate Purpose: UPSI shall be communicated only when needed for legitimate purpose, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. All insiders shall adhere to the conditions of strict confidentiality and shall not share any UPSI except for the aforesaid purpose.
5.	Process for sharing UPSI: The Insider should conduct the following steps while sharing UPSI:

a)	Satisfy that information is UPSI and that sharing of UPSI is for legitimate purposes only;
b)	Identify the persons and organizations with whom the information is to be shared and establish the narrowest possible group of recipients;

c)	Notify the recipients that the information that is being shared is UPSI and they should maintain confidentiality of the same in compliance with these regulations and enter into a confidentiality/non-disclosure agreement with them for the same.
d)	Mode of sharing UPSI shall be either by an email or hard copy or any other electronic mode or device with acknowledgement.
e)	Ensure that such details including but not limited to name of such person or entities, as the case may be, with whom UPSI is shared along with the PAN (or any other identifier authorized by law where PAN is not available), is maintained in a digital database. This database shall be maintained with adequate internal controls and checks such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non- tampering of the database and non-leakage of UPSI.

6.	Policy review: The Policy shall be reviewed periodically in accordance with review of internal controls as well as changes or any regulatory requirements from time to time. In the events of inconsistency of this Policy with any legal provisions, the provisions of the law shall override this Policy.

7.	Amendment: The Company reserves all right to modify and/or amend this Code at any time.


FAMILIARISATION		
PROGRAMME  FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS		
"HCL, 2015. All rights reserved."		
"No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, either electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written permission."		
Table of Contents		
Title	Page Number	
Preamble	3	
Overview of the Familiarisation Process	3	
Orientation Programme for new Directors	3	
Review of the Programme	4	
Disclosure Requirement	4	
Familiarisation Programme for Independent		
Directors		
Preamble		
Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with the Stock Exchanges inter-alia requires the Company to familiarize		
"the independent directors with the Company, their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company, nature of the industry in which the Company operates, business model of the Company, etc., through various"		
programmes.		
Overview of the Familiarization Process		
"All  Independent  Directors  have  been  briefed  about  their  roles,  functions  and  responsibilities  in  the"		
"Company. The appointment letter issued to Independent Directors also sets out detailed terms of employment including their roles, function, responsibilities and their fiduciary duties as a director of the Company. Information about various service lines was provided to the Independent Directors."		
"Independent Directors are provided with necessary documents, reports and internal policies to enable them"		
"to familiarize with the Company’s procedures and practices. Further, periodic presentations are made at the Board and its Committee Meetings, on business and performance updates of the Company, global business environment, business strategy and risks involved. Quarterly updates on relevant statutory changes are provided to the Directors in the Board meetings."		
Each director of the Company has complete access to any information relating to the Company. They are		
"given all the documents sought by them for enabling a good understanding of the Company and its various operations. Independent Directors have the freedom to interact with the Company’s management. Further, they have independent discussions without the presence of the Company’s Management Personnel to"		
discuss about the Company’s affairs and put forth their combined views to the Board.		
Orientation Programme for New Directors		
An orientation programme for new Directors will be conducted upon induction:		
"The Company shall conduct a formal induction programme for the new Independent Director, which may"		
include familiarization of Director with the following:		
"- Roles, rights and responsibilities of the Director and the Board as a whole;"		
"- Company’s vision, core values, ethics and Corporate Governance practices;"		
"- Business Structure and Overview, Corporate strategy, Business Plans and Annual Targets;"		
"-Familiarization with Company’s Business operations, performance, financial statements, other financial matters, Internal control processes and Statutory Compliances;"		
"- Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, Insider Trading Code, Fair Disclosure Code, Anti-Bribery and Anti-"		
Corruption Policy and others as may be formed by the Company from time to time.		
Review of the Programme		
"The Company may review the programme and make necessary revisions, as and when required."		
Disclosure Requirement		
The details of the familiarization programme shall be disclosed on the Company’s website and a web link		
thereto shall be given in the Annual Report.		

Code of
Business Ethics and Conduct
Contents
A message from our CEO                                                                       
Values                                                                                                 
"Our Code, our responsibilities                                                                "
Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct                                                      
Our responsibilities                                                                                           
How we choose the right course of action                                                      
We do what’s
right for our people
We do what’s
right for our company
We do what’s right for our communities and planet
We speak up                                                                                        
"Seeking help, speaking up                                                                              "
Anonymity and confidentiality                                                                        
What happens when we repo an issue?                                                       
We do not retaliate                                                                                         
Consequences of non-compliance                                                                
We do what’s right for our people                                                          
"We embrace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion                                                   "
We treat each other with respect                                                                   
We promote equal oppo unity                                                                      
We keep our workplaces safe and healthy                                                     
We keep our people secure                                                                            
We comply with employment and labor laws                                                 
We do what’s right for our clients                                                          
We prevent bribery and corruption                                                                
We conduct business with integrity                                                               
We compete honestly and fairly                                                                     
We use technology wisely                                                                               
We comply with government contracting rules                                             
We market our products honestly                                                                  
We work with suppliers who share our values                                                
We do what’s right for our company                                                       
We avoid conflicts of interest                                                                         
We give and receive gifts and
ente ainment responsibly                                                                              
We do not engage in insider trading                                                              
We protect our information assets                                                                 
We respect our financial assets                                                                      
We value our time and physical assets                                                           
We safeguard our reputation                                                                          
We do what’s right for our
communities and our planet                                                                 
We honor our ESG commitments                                                                   
We protect our planet                                                                                     
We respect human rights                                                                                
We stay out of politics                                                                                    
We contribute to our communities                                                                 
Resources                                                                                           
Ethics & Compliance at HCLTech                                                                    
Helpful resources and contacts                                                                     
Policies                                                                                                            
Index                                                                                                                
A message from our CEO
"Dear HCLTechies,"
HCLTech has always lived by a strong value system focused
on doing business the right way and treating our colleagues with mutual respect. We’ve been recognized globally by Ethisphere in 2024 as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®.
Each one of us must understand and embody HCLTech’s
"core values of Integrity, Inclusion, Value Creation, People Centricity and Social Responsibility. Remember, all of us are brand ambassadors for the organization and are expected to demonstrate these values to our stakeholders."
The HCLTech Code of Business Ethics and Conduct
"outlines these values in detail, along with policies and consequences that govern our behaviors. I encourage you to refer to this document and let it be your No  h Star as  you find your spark and advance your careers with HCLTech."
"Impo  antly, speak up if you come across any violation of"
HCLTech’s values and code of ethics. We rely on each other to be responsible and hold ourselves accountable. You can repo  any such ma  ers or violations on the Global Ethics Helpline po al.
I look forward to your commitment as we move forward on
our growth journey with the purpose of bringing together the best of technology and our people to supercharge progress.
"Remember, it’s impo ant to achieve goals, and it’s even more impo ant to do it the right way.”"
"Regards,"
C Vijayakumar
CEO & Managing Director
Core values
"Our core values serve as our guide and steadfast pillars, steering us towards our vision and aspirations. These values describe our fundamental beliefs and principles and help shape our individual as well as collective behavior and actions."
Our values
Integrity
We maintain the highest ethical
"standards and are commi  ed to doing the right thing, all the time."
Inclusion
We create an environment where
everyone can succeed and be encouraged to be their best and most authentic selves. We believe in providing equal access and oppo  unities to all.
Value Creation
We’re obsessed with creating value
"for our clients and supercharging their progress. We always go the extra mile, day in and day out, to deliver on our commitments and identify new oppo  unities for growth."
People-Centricity
We encourage our people to “find
"their spark” and shape their career journeys. We empower people to be entrepreneurs and creators, encouraging them to su  ace ideas, big and small."
Social Responsibility
"We give back to our communities,"
and we are focused on doing the right things for our planet and the communities where we work and live.
How it all comes together
"Supercharging ProgressTM is our pledge to deliver business outcomes quickly and efficiently, with a focus on"
"pragmatism and resilience. This promise extends beyond our clients to encompass our people, the communities we serve, our shareholders and the planet as a whole."
Our Mission
"To make a positive global impact by harnessing the power of technology for our clients and our people. We strive to uplift our diverse workforce to deliver innovative business solutions while maintaining the highest standards of integrity, sustainability and social responsibility."
Who we are
What we
want to achieve
Purpose
We bring together the
best of technology and                                         our people to supercharge
"progress, for our clients, people, communities and planet."
Supercharging
Progress
Values
"Integrity, Inclusion, Value Creation, People Centricity and Social Responsibility"
What
"customers, employees can see through our culture"
What an
organization really cares about
Employee Value Proposition
"To help our people find their spark that intrigues, motivates, and inspires them so they maximize their potential and help supercharge progress."
"Our Code,"
our responsibilities
Purpose of the Code
Our Code is a guide to help each of us do what’s right. It
"highlights the principles we must follow as we go about our daily work. Our Code helps us build a culture of ethics and compliance, manage risk and supercharge progress."
How to use the Code
Read our Code to understand the expected behaviors when
"dealing with our people, our clients, our company and our communities. Refer to the Code when you are unsure about a policy or an ethical issue. Use the contacts and resources outlined in the Code to learn more or seek suppo  . Our Code is where we look first to align our actions with our values."
Applicability
"Our Code applies to all HCLTechies, HCLTech officers, board members, consultants and contractors, including persons associated with HCLTech, wherever we do business."
Waivers and amendments
"Our Code is a living document. From time to time, we may make changes to adapt to evolving business needs and legal updates. All such changes must be approved by a majority of Top Management. In rare cases, HCLTech may waive ce ain provisions of our Code, policies or procedures. All such waivers must be approved, in writing, by a majority of Top Management."
Everyone’s  responsibilities
"We are all responsible for knowing our Code and acting in accordance with our policies, procedures and the law. We comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, wherever we do business."
"We use our best judgment and apply the strictest ethical standard in our choices. When our Code expects a higher standard of conduct than the law, we follow our Code."
"When local custom or policy conflicts with our Code, anywhere we do business, we follow our Code."
Remote work
"In recent years, more of us are working remotely. Even those of us who don’t repo   to an office on a regular basis must follow our Code. Our Code applies to all our HCLTechies, regardless of where they work."
Special responsibilities of
People Managers
"In addition to the above, People Managers must:"
"• Make sure all members of their teams are working in accordance with our Code, our policies and the law"
"• Keep HCLTechies up to date on trainings related to our Code, our policies and ethics and compliance issues"
• Be available as a first contact whenever ethics and compliance questions or concerns arise
• Set an example of how best to live our HCLTech values
Special responsibilities of board members
Our board members play an impo  ant role in
steering HCLTech at a high level. All board members must:
• Remain up to date on HCLTech and the factors that affect our business
• A end all board meetings and pa icipate in all commi ees they are a pa  of
"• Monitor our policies and repo ing mechanisms to make sure they are current, effective and in alignment with our values and the law"
• Protect the legitimate interests of HCLTech
• Don’t take pa in illegal or unethical trade or investment practices
How we choose the right course of action
"At times, choosing the right course of action may be difficult."
"If you are unsure of what to do, ask yourself these questions:"
Would this action
violate any laws or regulations?
Would this action
violate any HCLTech policies or our Code?
Would this action
conflict with HCLTech’s core values?
Would this action
harm HCLTech in any way?
"If the answer to any of these questions is yes, do not proceed. Talk to your People Manager,"
your team members or any other resource listed in this Code to find a be  er way forward.
We speak up
"Seeking help, speaking up"
We may at times become aware of unethical or illegal
"conduct, or violations of our Code. We are all responsible for speaking up when this happens. We protect HCLTech’s reputation and our ability to innovate in a positive workplace when we hold ourselves accountable."
"If you ever suspect anyone of a violation, or need help"
"with an ethical ma  er, use one or more of these options:"
• Repo  the issue to the Global Ethics Helpline
• MyHCLTech > Top Ribbon (Main Menu) > Ethics Helpline
"• In Germany and the Netherlands,"
write to whistleblower@hcltech.com
Discuss the issue with your People Manager
Anonymity and confidentiality
"If you wish to remain anonymous when making a complaint,"
we will take all reasonable steps to protect your identity. Be aware that remaining anonymous may affect our ability to investigate. We may need to reveal the identity of the person repo ing a suspected violation if identification is:
• Necessary to effectively respond to the repo 
• Required by law
• Required as pa  of a disciplinary proceeding
"We keep all details of investigations confidential, to the"
"extent allowable by law. Only the Ethics Commi ee (EC), the Internal Investigation team and those directly involved in the issue will learn details of the investigation, and only on an as-needed basis."
What happens when we repo 
an issue?
"We take all repo s very seriously. Any time a repo is submi ed, we follow these steps:"
"Step 1: The Ombudsperson will carry out a preliminary investigation of a Complaint to decide if a full investigation is required based on facts alleged in the Complaint. If a full investigation is not required, the"
"Ombudsperson shall submit its repo   to the EC. If the Ombudsperson decides that a full investigation is required, such Complaints shall be forwarded to the Internal Investigation team."
Step 2: The Internal Investigation team shall
We do not retaliate
"We are resilient in the face of challenges, and we  encourage a culture where all HCLTechies feel free to speak out. That’s why we do not tolerate retaliation of any kind against someone who makes a repo  in good faith. Any threats against such a person, including threats of physical harm, job loss or salary reduction, are strictly prohibited."
Anyone who feels intimidated for having made a repo  may contact the EC.
Consequences of non-compliance
"To uphold our reputation for integrity and protect HCLTech, we must act in accordance with our values, our Code and  the law. Those who violate our Code, our policies, or any laws or regulations will be held accountable. Consequences may include but are not limited to the following:"
decide upon fu  her investigation and next steps in
consultation with the EC.
"Step 3: The Internal Investigation team shall submit its interim repo   to the Chief People Officer “CPO” and its final repo   to the EC, and any disciplinary action shall be decided by the Chief People Officer “CPO” in"
"consultation with the EC, as needed. We do not retaliate."
• Verbal warning
• Wri  en warning
• Probation
• Termination of employment
• Legal action
We do what’s right
for our people
Doing what’s right
"We suppo all our HCLTechies in being the most authentic versions of themselves. By removing barriers in our Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive culture, we make HCLTech stronger."
Why we do what’s right
"Diversity brings fresh perspectives and improves our insights and decision-making. By including diverse voices and cultures, we strengthen our business. We become more resilient and more innovative, and we a  ract a wide variety of talents. The barriers and biases we remove in pursuit"
"of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion make way for a future of supercharged  progress."
How we do what’s right
"We embrace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion when we:"
• Include and seek inputs from all HCLTechies
• Build our workforce with diversity in mind
• Actively seek out and listen to the points of view of others
"• Suppo  and nu  ure our differences, and remove barriers to inclusion"
• Confront bias in ourselves and others with empathy and respect
• Speak out to protect our point of view and the views of others
"Our commitment to five pillars of Diversity,"
Equity and Inclusion
"We believe “Inclusion is achieved when people believe that their unique and authentic self is valued, they are treated equally and with respect, they feel safe while expressing their opinion and when they are empowered to take decisions to grow and do their best.” Our areas of focus are on five pillars:"
• Gender inclusion to empower women
• Disability inclusion to accommodate HCLTechies with disabilities
"• Cultural inclusion to make sure all cultural backgrounds, ways of working and lifestyles are respected"
• LGBTQIA+ inclusion to foster a safe and suppo ive space for all LGBTQIA+ people and their allies
"• Veteran inclusion to include HCLTechies who have served in the Armed Forces, are serving or plan to serve."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I recently had an accident that has severely impacted my life. Doctors say I won’t walk again and will need to use a wheelchair. Am I going to be able to feel comfo  able going to work again?
A: Going through a challenge like yours cannot
"be easy, but know that HCLTech will make every accommodation to make sure you can continue to thrive at work. We design our workspaces with"
"accessibility in mind, and we will make whatever other adjustments we can to keep you independent. We want all our HCLTechies to feel included, just the way they are."
Learn More Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Doing what’s right
"We create and maintain a respectful work environment, free from harassment of any kind. We all have a right to feel respected and suppo ed at work."
Why we do what’s right
"Our top priority is to do our best work — to innovate within the value zone between our HCLTechies and our clients. To make this happen, we must treat each other with respect, always. A respectful work environment reduces distractions and encourages contributions. We do not tolerate offensive behavior, bullying or harassment in any form because such behavior threatens our purpose, our unity and our focus."
How we do what’s right
We treat each other with respect when we:
• Approach all interactions with professionalism and tact
• Value the dignity of all our co-workers and their contributions
• Don’t say or do anything others may find offensive
"• Don’t take pa   in any behavior that could create a hostile environment, including harassment and intimidation"
"• Repo  any offensive, harassing or intimidating behavior to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline"
Understanding harassment
"One way to make sure we avoid harassment, and speak up when we see it, is to make sure we understand it. Harassment can be about:"
"• What we say or write, including slurs, stereotypes and offensive or abusive language"
"• What we do, such as unwelcome touching, making sexual advances or blocking a co-worker’s path"
"• What we display, including sexually explicit images left on a screen or hung up in a workspace as well as printed slogans or posters that others may find offensive"
Remember that harassment isn’t about what we intend by our words or actions but how others might perceive them.
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I always dress professionally, and I take pride in how I look. Recently, a co-worker sta ed giving me compliments, which I usually don’t mind. But this co-worker sta ed saying things about my body that made me uncomfo  able, and he has sta ed hovering around my workspace when I am trying to concentrate. What should I do?"
A: Your co-worker’s behavior is unacceptable. You
should first let him know that his words and actions are making you uncomfo  able. If you are not
"comfo  able talking to him, or if talking to him doesn’t help, discuss the issue with your People Manager."
You may also repo  your co-worker’s behavior to the Global Ethics Helpline. You should never feel uncomfo  able or disrespected as pa  of HCLTech.
Doing what’s right
"We make all hiring and promotion decisions based on merit, and we don’t discriminate against any person or group."
Why we do what’s right
"Just as our commitment to diversity brings us unique insights, our commitment to equal oppo  unity brings us the most qualified HCLTechies. Equal oppo  unity opens our hiring and promotion process to all, regardless of identity, so that we may make the best possible use of the talents and abilities that sustain our success. As a company commi  ed to fairness, we insist on fairness in all our employment decisions."
How we do what’s right
We promote equal oppo  unity when we:
"• Treat each other fairly, with a focus on the qualifications, experience and value we bring to HCLTech"
"• Make all hiring, training and promotion decisions based on merit"
• Make all accommodations for HCLTechies with disabilities
• Don’t discriminate against any person or group on the basis of a protected characteristic
• Repo  any instances of discrimination to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
HCLTech encourages HCLTechies to repo  any
concerns through:
• Global Ethics Helpline on www.hcltech.com.
• Employees based out of Germany or the Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievances by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
•  External stakeholders to repo  any concerns through h   ps://app.convercent.com/en-US/  LandingPage/dceb2afa-6c00-ec11-a983-  000d3ab9f062?_=1630515026902
Understanding  discrimination
"Though we make evaluations based on qualifications, we don’t discriminate on the basis of a protected characteristic. Protected characteristics include but are not limited to:"
• Race or ethnicity
• Age
• Religion
"• Sex, gender, sexual orientation or gender identity"
• Disability
We embrace all of our differences and focus on the skills and abilities we bring to HCLTech.
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I’ve been working on cloud architecture for one  of our clients for several months, and my skill level in this area has improved dramatically. Even my co- workers say that they are impressed with how I have grown. Yet when I had a pe ormance review with"
"my People Manager, he said that I was not eligible for a raise or promotion. Is it possible that I’m being discriminated against because I’m a woman?"
"A: It’s possible, but we would need more information"
to know for sure. Your People Manager may have responded the way he did for a variety of
"reasons. Have men on your team been promoted for comparable work? Do you have other reasons to believe you are being treated unfairly? If so, raise these concerns with your People Manager, or make a repo  to the Global Ethics Helpline or  whistleblower@hcltech.com (for employees in Germany and the Netherlands)."
Doing what’s right
"Safety is a top priority, and we complete all work tasks in the safest, healthiest ways possible. We don’t compromise when it comes to our health and safety."
Why we do what’s right
"Our physical and mental health are essential to achieving our purpose as a business. We cannot stay resilient in the face of challenges if our workplaces are unsafe in any way. We are all responsible for looking out for each other,"
"following our safety procedures and protocols, and staying aware of our work environments. This enables us to do what we do best: break boundaries and advance technology."
How we do what’s right
We keep our workplaces safe and healthy when we:
"• Don’t work recklessly, take unnecessary risks or direct others to do so"
• Are aware of our Occupational Health & Safety Policy and Environmental Policy
• Know all emergency safety procedures and a  end all safety trainings
• Watch out for each other to make sure we are staying safe on the job
"• Don’t work under the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol, and don’t bring controlled substances to work"
• Talk to the repo  ing People Manager or HR to get any needed suppo   for mental or emotional health
"• Don’t bring weapons of any kind to work, and repo  any weapons you may see to the repo ing People Manager or HR Pa ner"
• Repo  any unsafe working conditions or processes on the tool ‘Incidents Occupational Health & Safety and environment’ available on www.myhcltech.com
"• Resolve disagreements calmly, and repo  any acts or threats of violence to the repo  ing People Manager or HR Pa ner"
"• Follow all best practices, policies and procedures for regular work tasks"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I spend a lot of time in front of my computer, and though I am careful from an ergonomic standpoint, I sometimes experience serious eye strain. Some days, I feel as if my vision is ge  ing worse. Is this a safety issue?"
A: Yes. Discuss your problem with your People Manager or HR immediately. We can make sure that your workspace has optimal lighting and that your computer screen has the best contrast for reducing eye strain. You can also take sho  breaks to rest your eyes as needed.
Doing what’s right
"We are prepared for what the future might bring, and  we take all steps to keep our people and our workplaces secure, every day."
Why we do what’s right
"We are optimistic about the future, and we are also pragmatists. As pragmatic optimists, we accept the possibility that crises may arise and accept"
"full responsibility for being prepared. We show our preparedness in the daily habits that reduce risk and maximize security, and also in the plans we have in place to respond to challenges that may arise. Our long-term success depends on both."
How we do what’s right
We keep our people secure when we:
• Know our roles in emergency situations
• A  end all trainings and drills related to security and crisis management
• Remain aware of our surroundings and of potential security risks
• Share concerns and best practices related to security and crisis management
• Communicate transparently and respectfully with anyone affected by any crises or security breaches we may experience
• Promptly repo  to a People Manager any compromises to workplace security we may become aware of
• Keep all workplaces locked and secure according to our policies and procedures
Leadership in an emergency
"When a crisis arises, designated leaders have special responsibilities. Though we hope no one will ever need to take on such responsibilities, preparedness could be essential to survival. If you have a designated leadership role in an emergency situation, make yourself visible and available. Others will be looking to you."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I have a license to carry a firearm where I live. Shouldn’t I be able to bring a weapon to work?
"A: No. As a ma  er of policy, we do not allow HCLTechies to bring weapons of any kind to work because some HCLTechies may feel threatened by this. We want all HCLTechies to feel safe, secure and ready to apply their skills and imaginations to impo  ant work problems."
Doing what’s right
"As a global company with a large workforce, we are"
"commi  ed to treating all our HCLTechies fairly. We comply with all employment and labor laws and regulations, anywhere we do business."
Why we do what’s right
"Treating all our HCLTechies fairly and according to the law builds our strength as a business. Though we are many, we come together as one because we value the contributions and dignity of all. Complying with all employment and labor laws is the right and responsible thing to do — it is also the sma est approach for the health of our business and our organization."
How we do what’s right
We comply with employment and labor laws when we:
"• Treat all HCLTechies fairly, whatever their role and wherever they may work"
• Honor all contracts and employment agreements
• Negotiate lawfully and in good faith with labor unions and other labor representatives
• A  end all trainings on employment and labor law and related HCLTech policies and procedures
• Repo   any violations of labor or employment law to your People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
• Follow all laws and HCLTech policies and procedures related to labor and employment
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I need to expand my team temporarily because our cloud services client has asked for more than we expected. What’s the best way to move forward?
"A: After you have approval from top management to sta  the hiring process, contact HR to make sure you are following the correct procedures. We want you to find the specialized talent that you need in the timeframe that you need it, without cu  ing any corners legally."
We do
what’s right for our clients
Doing what’s right
"We conduct all business with honesty, integrity and"
"the highest ethical standards. We have zero tolerance for bribery, and we never offer or accept any improper incentives, anywhere we do business."
Why we do what’s right
Our clients know they can count on us—that we are there
"when they need us. In pa  , that’s because of the solutions we provide, but it’s also because we do not tolerate corruption. Corruption in all its forms damages reputations and does harm to relationships. We maintain our resilience in the face of challenges, and retain our clients’ trust, when we conduct business on our merits, and only on our merits."
What is an “improper payment”?
Improper payments can come in many forms. Here
are a few examples:
"• Bribe: A bribe can be anything of value, including cash, gifts, inside information, favors and hospitality. Any of these can be considered a bribe if they are intended to gain an improper business advantage."
"• Kickback: This is a payment made to someone who has facilitated a business arrangement, such as a contract. The payment is improper because it is only for securing the contract, not for any  goods or service."
"• Facilitating payment: This type of payment is often made to a government official to expedite a standard process, such as checking goods when they are shipped across a border. In that case, a facilitating payment might allow the goods to pass through customs more quickly than others."
How we do what’s right
We prevent bribery and corruption when we:
• Keep accurate records of all payments
• Never offer anything of value to gain a business advantage
• Never accept anything of value from a third pa  y we are negotiating with
• Never accept anything of value from a third pa  y we know or suspect is offering it to gain a business advantage
• Never offer anything of value to a government official or agent to expedite a routine process
• Never offer or accept a bribe or kickback
• Never use a third pa  y to make payments we would not make ourselves
• Follow HCLTech policy on giving and receiving payments
• Repo  any concerns about improper payments to a manager or to the Global Ethics Helpline
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I am working on a project to help customize digital customer service for a large company. The software we are helping to develop operates across international boundaries. Recently, I was contacted by a government official who suggested he could help HCLTech and our business pa ner bypass the encryption regulations in his country if we were willing to pay him in cash. What should I do?"
"A: This government official is asking for a bribe. Do not make any payments and repo   the incident immediately to your manager. You may also repo this to the Global Ethics Helpline. We never make improper payments to bypass a regulation, or for any other reason."
Learn More Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy—Global
Doing what’s right
"As a global company, we must be aware of laws in many"
"different countries. We comply with these laws and regulations, as well as all international trade regulations that affect our business."
Why we do what’s right
"We’re a pioneering company when it comes to breaking boundaries to advance technology. However, we respect national borders and follow international trade regulations."
"We pioneer responsibly because our business relies on fair and predictable norms. Violating laws, regulations and treaties that govern international business could harm our reputation and bring serious consequences."
Data privacy
"As a technology services company, we must safeguard the data that we gather and apply on a daily basis. Data privacy laws vary significantly around the world — a rule, regulation or standard that applies in Europe may not apply in India or the United States. We remain current on the state of data privacy law, anywhere and everywhere we do business. Our clients, and our reputation, depend on it."
How we do what’s right
We conduct business with integrity when we:
• Learn all relevant laws and regulations before marketing or distributing across international borders
• Conduct thorough due diligence when evaluating business pa ners around the world
• Follow all restrictions regarding data privacy in all countries where we do business
• Don’t do business with any entities on a U.S. or EU embargo or sanctions list
• Follow all policies and procedures related to international trade
"• Collect, use and process personal information only for legitimate business purposes"
• Process personal information in line with the privacy principles defined in HCLTech’s Global Privacy Policy and binding corporate rules
• Act in accordance with applicable laws and relevant contractual obligations
• Repo  any suspected data breach immediately
• Adhere to the highest security standards when we handle personal information
• Repo   any violations of our international trade policies or the law to your People Manager or to the
Global Ethics Helpline
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I am working in a team that is helping digitize an
"automobile manufacturing process. We found a way to get the sensors we need for a great price, but the company that makes them is located in a country currently on an embargo list. Is there a way we can work with this business?"
"A: No. Unfo  unately, you will have to find another"
way to acquire these sensors. We don’t do business involving countries on any U.S. or EU embargo lists.
Learn More
Anti–Money Laundering Policy — Global  Expo  Compliance Policy
Human Rights Policy
Doing what’s right
We win business by providing imaginative solutions to our clients. We don’t seek unfair advantages in the marketplace — we don’t want or need to.
Why we do what’s right
"Since 1976, HCLTech has been competing for business using ingenuity and innovation. We welcome competition because we know it makes us be  er, and because it is ultimately"
"be  er for our clients and the marketplace as a whole. We’ve earned our reputation as a resilient and pioneering tech company. To protect that reputation and avoid serious consequences, we follow all fair-competition laws."
How we do what’s right
We compete honestly and fairly when we:
"• Avoid discussing pricing, bidding or how we divide markets with our competitors"
• Avoid stating anything negative or untrue about our competitors or their products and services
• Use only public sources to gather competitive information
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws related to fair competition"
• Repo  any violation of our fair-competition policies or the law to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
What are anticompetitive
practices?
Anticompetitive practices are methods of limiting competition or seeking an unfair advantage in the marketplace. Examples include:
• Price fixing: competitors agree to use the same price so that clients cannot seek out the best value
• Bid rigging: competitors agree in advance who will win a competitive bidding process
"• Market division: competitors divide territories and agree to stay in their own, thus reducing client choice"
• Group boyco  : two or more competitors refuse to do business with a specific person or company
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: At a recent expo for aircraft interiors, I ran into an old college friend. We took a li  le time to catch up, and I learned that she now works for a competitor of ours. She said she was curious about our pricing and that she would be happy to share pricing information from her company, if I was ever interested. I politely ended the conversation without commi  ing to anything. Was that the right thing to do?"
A: Yes. Comparing pricing could be seen as an a empt
"at price fixing, an anticompetitive practice. We allow the quality of our work to win business, and we don’t pursue unfair advantages in the marketplace."
Learn More Antitrust and Fair Competition Policy
Doing what’s right
"We pioneer technology responsibly, innovating for the"
greater good of our business and for society as a whole. We don’t allow technology to work against human interests or the law.
Why we do what’s right
We believe in making improvements by using our
"imaginations to apply technology. As we innovate into new territory, we are careful to consider the impacts of new technologies. We also know that new laws and regulations will emerge in response to these technologies, and that such laws can vary greatly depending on country or region. We don’t violate these laws, anywhere we do business."
How we do what’s right
We use technology wisely when we:
• Design and implement our technology solutions with human needs in mind
• Optimize our technologies for business purposes only
"• Make sure that our technologies use and deliver fair, actionable information, without bias"
• Align our technologies with strict data privacy protocols and regulations
"• Follow all policies, laws and regulations related to technology use and development"
Bias and discrimination
"Some have raised concerns that a  ificial intelligence and web-based algorithms have bias encoded into them. Because we are commi  ed to inclusion and fairness, we design our solutions with these concerns in mind. We want our global reach to be authentic — truly representative of and tailored to the many kinds of people our innovations reach."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I have been hearing a lot lately about the potential of technology to spread misinformation and even outright lies through “deep fakes.” What do we do as software engineers to prevent these kinds of things from happening?
"A: We cannot be responsible for what happens outside HCLTech, even if we develop and use technologies that could be used for the wrong reasons. We believe that technology is a tool for improving human lives, even though some may use it for other purposes. As one of our software engineers, you do the right thing when you code ethically and lawfully, and when you raise impo  ant questions in the face of challenges."
Doing what’s right
"We are privileged to work with and for governments, providing a variety of services and solutions. We embrace the responsibility that goes along with this work, and we bring our high ethical standards to these contracts."
Why we do what’s right
"Our pragmatic optimism guides us in working with all our clients, and we recognize that governments may have different requirements for doing business. Governments must be careful in using public funds, and we honor the faith and trust they put in us. In addition, government contracts may come with unique requirements and stronger penalties for violations. We are careful to follow these requirements and laws so that we can continue to help governments meet their technological challenges."
How we do what’s right
We comply with government contracting rules when we:
• Fully meet all our commitments on government contracts
• Communicate honestly and transparently with governments on all aspects of a contract
• Don’t offer anything of value to government officials or anyone working for a state-owned entity that exceeds the annual limit of USD $50.
"• Honor all terms of government contracts, including those that may create special rules around pricing and discounts"
"• Follow all policies, laws and regulations regarding government contracts and procurement processes"
Government employees
and agencies
"In addition to leaders, representatives and their staff, governments employ many people for many different reasons. Governments are often"
"responsible for running multiple agencies, and these agencies may themselves hire outside contractors. We must treat any of these entities with the same high ethical standards. Ultimately, we are serving  the public whenever we pa ner with any government-related entity."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I am working on a government contract to develop educational solutions. One of my contacts within the government is bothering me constantly for updates. What can I do?
"A: Though you may find it distracting, you need to communicate with this contact. We are fully open, honest and transparent when working with the government, and we provide all required repo  s"
"in a timely fashion. If you feel this obligation is overwhelming, talk to your People Manager about receiving extra suppo ."
Doing what’s right
We are proud of our work and reputation. We uphold our integrity by sharing honest details about our products and services.
Why we do what’s right
"At HCLTech, an honest presentation of our products and services cannot help but be compelling. By bringing our expe ise, resilience and imagination into everything we do, we know we can win business. Relationships built on transparency and trust create the best long-term value for our company."
How we do what’s right
We market our products honestly when we:
• Don’t exaggerate or misrepresent the capabilities of our products and services
• Estimate project timelines carefully and accurately
• Don’t make disparaging remarks about our competitors
• Don’t give legal advice
• Don’t infringe on copyrights or other intellectual prope  y
• Make sure all adve isements and other marketing materials follow all laws and regulations
Protecting our clients
Honest marketing creates accurate expectations from our clients. It also protects our clients and other consumers who may use our technological innovations. We are transparent about possible risks
of our products and services so that others know how to use them responsibly.
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I’m writing marketing copy that needs to be published next week. One of the claims I want to make is suppo ed by a preliminary repo   that won’t be released until next month. Can I include the information from the repo   before it is published?
"A: No. In your copy, you will have to change the claim and omit suppo  ing information from the repo  . We don’t publish marketing materials that are not backed by credible, verifiable research."
Doing what’s right
"When building and maintaining business pa nerships,"
we seek not just economic value but also the right values. Our mission is to pa  ner with those who share our high ethical standards.
Why we do what’s right
Our suppliers and other business pa ners help us deliver high-quality solutions to our clients. We rely on them to suppo  and collaborate with us as we pursue our mission.
"Any compromise in values or violations of the law by our business pa ners could harm our reputation, so we must prioritize shared values and ethics when"
pa nering with others.
Global Procurement Services (GPS)
"HCLTech suppo   s our business units’ supplier management through Global Procurement Services (GPS). With a commitment to trust and transparency,"
GPS works globally and across all categories of products and services to enable third-pa  y
"pa nerships. GPS helps us work and win together, building strong supplier relationships, wherever we do business."
How we do what’s right
We make sure to work with suppliers who share our
values when we:
"• Treat all suppliers and business pa ners fairly, regardless of the business value of the relationship"
"• Base all decisions on objective criteria such as price, availability and quality, as well as values"
• Avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest with regard to a supplier/business pa ner
"• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment, especially when in the process of selecting a supplier/business pa  ner"
"• Seek to understand our supplier/business pa ners through open, honest communication, especially if issues arise"
• Don’t share our supplier/business pa ners’ confidential business information without permission
• Conduct due diligence to make sure all supplier/business pa  ners follow the law and are commi  ed to ethical business practices
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I was recently contacted by a sales agent who might be able to get us business in a country where we’ve never worked before. Can I talk to this agent on behalf of HCLTech?
A: No. You must first contact Global Procurement
"Services (“GPS”) to begin the due diligence process for a new pa nership. When this process has begun, your involvement may be requested in taking next steps to establish a pa nership."
Learn More Procurement Policy
We do
what’s right
for our company
Doing what’s right
We put the interests of HCLTech ahead of our own personal
"interests, and we don’t put ourselves in situations where our integrity or objectivity could be compromised."
Why we do what’s right
Objective business decisions are the best business decisions. A conflict of interest can inte  ere with our ability to make decisions fairly and without bias. We avoid such conflicts so that we can collaborate on solutions for our clients and business pa ners without divided loyalties.
"Even the appearance of a conflict of interest can harm  our reputation, so we disclose any relationships that could cause concern."
What is a “conflict of interest”?
A conflict of interest may arise when an employee’s personal interests are not consistent with the responsibilities of the position. A conflict of interest can involve any of the following:
• Personal relationships with family members or romantic pa  ners
• Activities such as hobbies or outside employment
"• Investments, including owning shares in HCLTech’s competitor"
"• Association, such as serving on the board of an outside organization"
How we do what’s right
We avoid conflicts of interest when we:
• Make all business decisions objectively and without favoritism
• Remain ale   for any situations or relationships that could compromise our objectivity
"• Remove ourselves from hiring decisions involving friends or relatives, and make sure they don’t repo  to us as employees"
• Don’t pa  icipate in the selection process for a supplier or business pa  ner that employs a friend or relative
• Don’t hold a financial interest in a supplier or business pa ner of HCLTech
• Disclose holdings of 5 percent or more in a publicly traded company or a company in the same sector as HCLTech
• Disclose to a People Manager or HR any potential conflicts of interest that may affect us
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: One of our suppliers has asked me to join its advisory board. Would this be a conflict of interest?
A: Serving on a supplier’s advisory board might appear to give that supplier an unfair advantage. We avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. Discuss the ma er with HR before accepting the invitation.
Learn More Conflict of Interest Policy — Global
Doing what’s right
We build positive relationships with our actual and potential
"clients, business pa ners or any third pa  y that HCLTech does business with. That means that we don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment that could influence a business decision."
Why we do what’s right
"Our business pa ners help us to achieve our goals, and we enjoy the positive and productive relationships we build with them. To keep those relationships healthy, we don’t offer or accept inappropriate gifts or ente  ainment. Doing so could create an expectation of receiving a business favor in return. We build and maintain our business relationships with integrity because we believe our success comes from the quality of what we make and do."
How we do what’s right
We give and receive gifts and ente  ainment responsibly
when we:
• Accept only gifts and ente  ainment that are nominal in value and infrequent
• Document any gifts or ente  ainment that we give or accept
• Don’t ask for gifts or ente  ainment
"• Don’t offer or accept cash or cash equivalents, including gift cards"
• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment intended to influence a business decision
• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment from a potential business pa ner during a bidding or contract negotiation process
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I’m traveling on business to collaborate with one of our marketing firms. After our first day working together, the contact person at the firm offered me lunch at his company’s expense. Can I accept?"
"A: Yes, you can accept, as long as the value of the lunch is modest. Be sure to follow all procedures for documenting the meal you received, and contact the Ethics and Trade Compliance (E&TC) team if you have any questions by writing to COBEC.Compliance@ hcltech.com."
What is a “business gift”?
"A business gift is anything of value presented, accepted or won in the context of a business relationship, for which the recipient does not pay fair value."
"Common examples of business gifts include meals, event or spo    tickets and club memberships. Though these examples are not automatically inappropriate, if you are ever unsure, you should contact the Ethics and Trade Compliance (E&TC) team by writing to  COBEC.Compliance@hcltech.com. Ce   ain value restrictions may apply to even customary and infrequent  gifts."
Doing what’s right
"We don’t use material, non-public information for"
"personal financial gain, and we don’t share such information with others."
Why we do what’s right
"In the course of doing our daily work, we may become aware of material, non-public information, from either HCLTech or one of our business pa ners. We don’t use  or share such information because doing so could disto "
"financial markets. Insider trading gives an unfair advantage to those with access to non-public information, and it can lead to serious penalties."
How we do what’s right
We avoid insider trading when we:
• Share inside information only with our co-workers who need to know for business purposes
"• Don’t share inside information with anyone outside HCLTech, including family members"
• Don’t buy or sell securities in HCLTech or any other publicly traded company when we have inside information
• Don’t pass along inside information to someone who may buy or sell securities based on that information
• Don’t suggest that others trade on inside information
• Follow all policies and procedures to protect inside information from accidental disclosure
"What is “material, non-public"
information”?
Much of what we do as a business is not immediately
"made public for both practical and strategic reasons. If this information could be of value to investors, it is considered material and should not be shared. Some examples include:"
• A pending merger or acquisition
• The upcoming resignation of an executive
• A planned stock repurchase or split
"• A pending earnings repo  , pa  icularly if its results are unexpected"
• The upcoming purchase or sale of a major asset
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: At dinner with my husband, I mentioned that one"
"of our business pa  ners was planning to buy back some of its own shares. He told me the next evening that he had bought shares in the company, assuming the value would go up after the buyback. Did I make a mistake?"
A: Yes. You have inadve ently given your husband inside information that he then used to purchase a security. You must write to the Global Ethics Helpline immediately to determine the best course of action.
Learn More
Code of Conduct on Prohibition of Insider Trading  Insider Trading Code
Policy for Inquiry in Case of Violations of Insider Trading Code
Policy for Taking Actions on Non-Compliance of Insider Trading Code of the Company
Doing what’s right
We are careful with the information assets that drive our business and allow us to communicate and accomplish our daily work tasks. We keep them protected at all times.
Why we do what’s right
"As an innovative technology company, we have developed and acquired a variety of information assets. These assets are a key pa  of our business, affecting everything from how we set ourselves apa  strategically to how we manage client and employee data on a day-to-day basis. Our assets represent our decades of hard work, and protecting them will keep us innovating well into the future."
How we do what’s right
We protect our information assets when we:
"• Make sure that only authorized users have access to our networks, devices, applications and file directories"
"• Make sure company devices are safe and secure at all times, including removable media, both on- and off-site"
• Don’t open suspicious emails or click unfamiliar hyperlinks
• Follow best practices for managing and updating user IDs and passwords
"• Make sure company records are organized, secure and easy to access"
• Maintain and dispose of company records according to our records retention schedule
• Follow any legal hold that may be placed on a record
• Share confidential and proprietary information only with HCLTechies who need to know for business purposes
• Follow all policies and protocols for keeping confidential information secure
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws for protecting employee and client data"
What is “confidential information”?
We create many kinds of confidential information in the course of doing business. Some examples include:
"• Proprietary information, such as innovative designs and formulas"
"• Intellectual prope  y, such as patents and trademarks"
"• Non-public financial information, including prices and earnings projections"
• New product and marketing plans
• Client and supplier lists
• Research and development information
"• Business plans, such as upcoming acquisitions and investments"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I was at dinner with an old friend, and he asked me about work. I got excited about a new product we’re developing and told him about it. Was this a mistake?"
"A: Though it is unlikely your friend intends to use our product idea, you should not have shared that information. We invest a lot of time and energy into developing new products and ideas, and we do not"
"want another company to profit from our investment. We don’t share our confidential information, including new product development, with anyone outside HCLTech."
Learn More
Acceptable Use of Proprietary and Confidential Information from Third Pa  ies Policy  Records Retention and Destruction Policy
Doing what’s right
We take responsibility for our financial health and viability
"as a business. To this end, we keep and maintain complete and accurate financial records."
Why we do what’s right
Our financial assets play a role in defining how much and how quickly we can innovate. We keep complete and accurate records so that we can meet our obligations in the present and pioneer into the future. Maintaining proper
"financial records also builds confidence and trust among our investors, clients, business pa ners and other stakeholders."
Financial records
"Our financial assets include our money and anything that can be conve ed to money, including stocks and bonds. We keep track of these assets through our financial records, which must be handled according to our retention policies and internal controls. Key financial records include:"
• Balance sheets
• Income statements
• Cash flow statements
• Retained earnings statements
• Invoices
How we do what’s right
We respect our financial assets when we:
"• Maintain honest and accurate books and records, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the law"
• Don’t set up secret or unrecorded funds for any reason
• Submit all financial books and records to auditors in a timely manner
• File all tax information accurately and in a timely manner
• Don’t use financial records to mislead anyone about our business
• Don’t falsify financial records or a  empt to commit fraud of any kind
• Repo   any concerns about misleading or fraudulent records to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all policies, internal controls and procedures, and the law when handling financial assets and records"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I work in accounting, and I recently got a surprising request from one of our client account team leads."
"She said that some of the revenue from the client needed to be reversed out for this qua er and added instead to next qua er’s records. She couldn’t explain why, and I’ve never had anyone request that before."
What should I do?
A: You are right to be concerned. Contact the client
account team lead to get a be er understanding of the situation. Ask for documentation to explain the need for the change. We repo  our revenues
"accurately and in the correct period. If you are unable to get fu  her clarification, discuss the ma  er with your People Manager."
Learn More Anti–Money Laundering Policy — Global
Doing what’s right
"While on company time, we focus on our jobs and our responsibilities as HCLTechies. We use company assets for business purposes."
Why we do what’s right
"Our colleagues, clients and shareholders count on us to make judicious use of company time and physical assets. When we misuse company time and assets, we waste precious resources and harm our ability to meet our business goals."
How we do what’s right
We value our time and physical assets when we:
• Use company time and assets for business purposes
• Use common sense — occasional personal calls or emails are acceptable
• Repo  our time accurately
• Obtain prior approval for using HCLTech work product in an external venture
"• Don’t use HCLTech computers or equipment for outside businesses, or illegal or unethical activities such as gambling, pornography or other offensive content"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: My People Manager always asks me to take care of his personal business during the workday. This includes things like picking up dry cleaning, bringing his dog to the groomer and shopping for personal gifts. Is this right?"
"A: No, it’s not right. This is a misuse of company time. It also shows a lack of respect for you and the value you bring to HCLTech. Politely ask your People Manager to stop. If that doesn’t work, or you are uncomfo  able about it, repo   it to another trusted People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline."
Doing what’s right
"We have built our reputation for ingenuity, resilience, creativity and innovation over decades, and we act to protect and maintain it."
Why we do what’s right
"How we present ourselves to the wider world affects our prospects for the future. Messages that misrepresent us can damage our hard-earned reputation. We are careful to speak both positively and honestly about HCLTech, and in many cases, HCLTech speaks best through designated spokespersons."
How we do what’s right
We safeguard our reputation when we:
• Speak positively and honestly about HCLTech
• Don’t share confidential or sensitive information
• Forward outside inquiries from the media or investors to our designated spokespersons
• Clearly distinguish our own views from those of HCLTech when using social media
• Clearly distinguish our political views from those of HCLTech
"• Pa  icipate in politics on our own time, away from work"
• Don’t make political contributions on behalf of HCLTech
• Don’t a  empt to lobby or influence government officials or representatives
Social media
"Social media is a powe  ul way to build connections and share events, ideas and information. However, social media must be used responsibly. When posting to our personal social media accounts, we are"
"cou eous and respectful, and we don’t po  ray our own views as those of HCLTech. If our role at HCLTech involves engaging with social media, we are positive and honest. In either case, we don’t share sensitive or confidential information. By communicating ethically, we make sure that social media only enhances our reputation."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I was at a cybersecurity conference when an investor approached me with some questions he wanted to ask. I told him a li  le bit about why I was at the conference and then excused myself. Was that the right thing to do?
"A: Yes. We do not discuss HCLTech business with outside investors or media unless we have prior authorization. In the future, you may share the contact information of our designated"
spokespersons with anyone who has similar inquiries.
Learn More Social Media Policy
We do what’s
right for our communities and our planet
Doing what’s right
"We create long-term value for all our stakeholders, and"
making and honoring our ESG commitments helps us do that.
Why we do what’s right
"The longevity of our business depends on sustainability. To achieve sustainability, we must work with a number of stakeholders, including our suppliers, clients"
"and organizations such as the United Nations. Our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) commitments set clear and specific goals for how we help both HCLTech and our planet thrive."
How we do what’s right
We honor our ESG commitments when we:
"• A end all ESG trainings and meetings, and remain informed about our ESG commitments"
• Design our business processes to run sustainably
"• Foster Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in our work culture"
• Pa ner with suppliers who share our ESG commitments
• Hold ourselves accountable for meeting our high ethical standards
• Follow all policies and procedures related to our ESG commitments
Doing what’s right
We take responsibility for protecting our planet and
minimizing our impact on the environment.
Why we do what’s right
"Our business affects the natural environment, and we rely on that environment to provide many of the resources"
"we need to do business. By applying our ingenuity to environmental issues such as emissions and waste, we do what’s right for our planet. And because of the resources we preserve and the efficiencies we achieve, we also do what’s right for our business."
How we do what’s right
We protect our planet when we:
• Recycle and manage our waste according to our policies and procedures
"• Turn off lights, machinery and electronics when not in use"
• Pa  icipate in power down week to reduce carbon footprints
• Innovate to design sustainable business processes and practices across our global organization
"• Carpool, use public transit or bike/cycle to work"
"• Repo  any spills, leaks or breaches of our environmental policies to your People Manager or the"
Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all environmental policies, procedures and laws"
Doing what’s right
"We respect and protect human rights, wherever we do business, and we expect the same of our business pa ners. Human trafficking and modern slavery have no place in any pa of our business."
Why we do what’s right
"Because of our commitment to humanity and our people- centric culture, we respect the rights of all individuals"
"and the dignity of labor. As a global company with a large workforce, we have a special responsibility to uphold  human rights. By rejecting child labor, unsafe working conditions, human trafficking and other violations of human rights, we improve working conditions for all and set an impo  ant ethical standard."
How we do what’s right
We respect human rights when we:
• Make sure all our HCLTechies work in safe conditions for fair pay
• Select business pa  ners with a demonstrated commitment to protecting human rights
"• Don’t use child or prison labor for any reason, anywhere we do business"
"• Repo  any violations of human rights, anywhere in our supply chain, to your People Manager or the"
Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws related to human rights"
The International Labour
Organization (ILO) and the United Nations (UN)
"The ILO has prohibited all forms of child labor, as"
"well as modern slavery. The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) share these principles. We follow the standards set by these organizations. Forced labor of any kind violates our policies, values and international law."
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I was recently at a supplier location for a meeting, and I noticed that the employees looked very tired and overworked. They appeared to be working without breaks or shift changes. Could this be a human rights violation?"
A: It may be. Repo  your concerns to the Global Ethics Helpline. We don’t look the other way when human rights violations may be taking place.
Learn More
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Human Rights Policy
Doing what’s right
"HCLTech is apolitical. As a company, we do not contribute"
to or work for any political candidate or pa  y anywhere in the world.
Why we do what’s right
"Our HCLTechies and our clients come from all walks of life and hold various political beliefs. We honor those beliefs, as long as they are peaceful and do not advocate harm against others. As a company, while true to our values, we stay out of politics."
How we do what’s right
We stay out of politics when we:
"• Don’t contribute to, work for or endorse any political candidate or pa  y on behalf of HCLTech"
"• Don’t use company time, finances or other assets to benefit a political candidate or pa  y"
• Encourage our HCLTechies to pa  icipate in the political process on their own time
"• Engage in lawful lobbying activities to advocate for government policies, programs, laws and regulations that benefit HCLTech and our clients"
Doing what’s right
"Community is at the hea  of everything we do, which is"
why we give back. We strive to be a source code for socio- economic and environmental development.
Why we do what’s right
"Guided by our values of equity, dignity and equal  oppo  unity, we give back in ways that ma  er. Through meaningful and strategic pa  nerships, we effectively"
"leverage the “power of many” to positively impact lives and spread smiles. We work to make this world a be er place, in all possible ways."
How we do what’s right
We best contribute to our communities when we:
"• Nu  ure clean, green and healthy communities"
• Empower all community members to reach their full potential
• Promote responsible volunteerism
• Make sure our charitable activities don’t inte  ere with our work
• Don’t pressure others to pa  icipate in or donate to our favored charities
• Establish international standards of strategic planning and implementation
• Measure our impact
Our 10 Commandments of Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”)
"HCLTech invests in people, the planet and pa nerships for prosperity and"
"peace. We are guided in these effo s by our 10 Commandments, or 10 C’s."
Learn More Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
42        Contents        Message
Values
Our Code
Speak up           People           Clients          Company      Communities     Resources
Ethics & compliance at HCLTech
"To evaluate repo s and complaints, serve as a resource"
"and facilitate investigations, HCLTech has a standing Ethics Commi  ee. The commi  ee is made up of at least five members and is led by our General Counsel. The other members are drawn from our Finance, Legal and HR depa  ments."
An independent Ombudsperson will make initial
"evaluations of repo s and complaints. The Ombudsperson is independent of HCLTech and serves as a neutral pa y. Once the Ombudsperson has made a judgment, the repo or complaint is forwarded to the Ethics Commi  ee or the Audit Commi ee. Repo s involving high-level executives, directors or chairpersons go the Audit Commi  ee. All others are the responsibility of the Ethics Commi  ee."
"Through these bodies and processes, we hold ourselves accountable to our Code, our values and the law. For any violations, appropriate disciplinary action, up to and"
"including termination of employment, will be determined by our ethics and compliance procedures."
Helpful resources and contacts
"If you ever suspect anyone of a violation, or need help with an ethical ma  er, remember to use one or more of these options:"
• Repo  the issue to the Global Ethics Helpline
• MyHCLTech > Top Ribbon (Main Menu) > Ethics Helpline
"• In Germany and the Netherlands, write to  whistleblower@hcltech.com"
• Discuss the issue with your People Manager
Policies
Acceptable Use of Proprietary and Confidential Information
from Third Pa  ies Policy
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy — Global  Anti-Money Laundering Policy — Global
Antitrust and Fair Competition Policy
Business Gift and Ente  ainment Policy — Global Conflict of Interest Policy — Global
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  Energy Policy
Environmental Policy Expo  Compliance Policy
Human Rights Policy
Insider Trading Code
Policy for Inquiry in Case of Violations of  Insider Trading Code
Policy for Taking Actions on Non-Compliance of Insider  Trading Code of the Company
Procurement Policy
Record Retention and Destruction Policy Social Media Policy
Whistleblower Policy — Global
Accounting and Financial Records                                   33
Boyco  s                                                                                 23
"Bribery ............................................................................................20,  21,  43"
Business Intelligence                                                        23
Charitable Activity                                                                  41
Communicating with the Public                                         35
Community Engagement                                                       41
Company Assets                                                               34
"Confidential Information...............................................27, 32, 35, 43"
"Conflicts of Interest................................................................ 27, 29, 43"
Corporate Communication                                                27
"Data Breach .................................................................................. 17, 22, 38"
"Discrimination.....................................................................................15,     24"
"Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ..............................................13, 15, 37"
Embargoes                                                                            22
"Equal Oppo unity ............................................................................. 15, 41"
Ethical Decision Making                                                      8
Expo   Control Laws                                                          20
"Fair Business Practices...................................................20, 22, 23, 26"
Gifts and Ente  ainment                                                    30
"Government Officials.......................................................20, 21, 25, 35"
Harassment                                                                           14
Health and Safety                                                                  16
"Human Rights ............................................................................22, 39, 43"
"Insider   Trading....................................................................................31,   43"
"Intellectual Prope   y.......................................................................26, 32"
"Investigations.....................................................................................  10,    43"
Material Non-Public Information                                            31
"Money Laundering...................................................................22, 33, 43"
"Political Pa icipation and Contributions ............................ 35, 40"
"Privacy ...................................................................................................22, 24"
"Proprietary Information ............................................................... 32, 43"
"Records Management ............................................................ 21, 32, 33"
"Repo ing a Complaint ............................................................. 10, 11, 43"
Retaliation                                                                                   11
"Social Media ...................................................................................... 35, 43"
Supply Chain Management                                               39
"Sustainability  ........................................................................................ 7,   37"
"Trade............................................................................................8,  22,  29,  31"
Travel and Ente  ainment                                                  30
Using the Code                                                                   7
"Weapons ................................................................................................ 16, 17"
Workplace Violence                                                               16
hcltech.com

Code of
Business Ethics and Conduct
Contents
A message from our CEO                                                                       
Values                                                                                                 
"Our Code, our responsibilities                                                                "
Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct                                                      
Our responsibilities                                                                                           
How we choose the right course of action                                                      
We do what’s
right for our people
We do what’s
right for our company
We do what’s right for our communities and planet
We speak up                                                                                        
"Seeking help, speaking up                                                                              "
Anonymity and confidentiality                                                                        
What happens when we repo an issue?                                                       
We do not retaliate                                                                                         
Consequences of non-compliance                                                                
We do what’s right for our people                                                          
"We embrace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion                                                   "
We treat each other with respect                                                                   
We promote equal oppo unity                                                                      
We keep our workplaces safe and healthy                                                     
We keep our people secure                                                                            
We comply with employment and labor laws                                                 
We do what’s right for our clients                                                          
We prevent bribery and corruption                                                                
We conduct business with integrity                                                               
We compete honestly and fairly                                                                     
We use technology wisely                                                                               
We comply with government contracting rules                                             
We market our products honestly                                                                  
We work with suppliers who share our values                                                
We do what’s right for our company                                                       
We avoid conflicts of interest                                                                         
We give and receive gifts and
ente ainment responsibly                                                                              
We do not engage in insider trading                                                              
We protect our information assets                                                                 
We respect our financial assets                                                                      
We value our time and physical assets                                                           
We safeguard our reputation                                                                          
We do what’s right for our
communities and our planet                                                                 
We honor our ESG commitments                                                                   
We protect our planet                                                                                     
We respect human rights                                                                                
We stay out of politics                                                                                    
We contribute to our communities                                                                 
Resources                                                                                           
Ethics & Compliance at HCLTech                                                                    
Helpful resources and contacts                                                                     
Policies                                                                                                            
Index                                                                                                                
A message from our CEO
"Dear HCLTechies,"
HCLTech has always lived by a strong value system focused
on doing business the right way and treating our colleagues with mutual respect. We’ve been recognized globally by Ethisphere in 2024 as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®.
Each one of us must understand and embody HCLTech’s
"core values of Integrity, Inclusion, Value Creation, People Centricity and Social Responsibility. Remember, all of us are brand ambassadors for the organization and are expected to demonstrate these values to our stakeholders."
The HCLTech Code of Business Ethics and Conduct
"outlines these values in detail, along with policies and consequences that govern our behaviors. I encourage you to refer to this document and let it be your No  h Star as  you find your spark and advance your careers with HCLTech."
"Impo  antly, speak up if you come across any violation of"
HCLTech’s values and code of ethics. We rely on each other to be responsible and hold ourselves accountable. You can repo  any such ma  ers or violations on the Global Ethics Helpline po al.
I look forward to your commitment as we move forward on
our growth journey with the purpose of bringing together the best of technology and our people to supercharge progress.
"Remember, it’s impo ant to achieve goals, and it’s even more impo ant to do it the right way.”"
"Regards,"
C Vijayakumar
CEO & Managing Director
Core values
"Our core values serve as our guide and steadfast pillars, steering us towards our vision and aspirations. These values describe our fundamental beliefs and principles and help shape our individual as well as collective behavior and actions."
Our values
Integrity
We maintain the highest ethical
"standards and are commi  ed to doing the right thing, all the time."
Inclusion
We create an environment where
everyone can succeed and be encouraged to be their best and most authentic selves. We believe in providing equal access and oppo  unities to all.
Value Creation
We’re obsessed with creating value
"for our clients and supercharging their progress. We always go the extra mile, day in and day out, to deliver on our commitments and identify new oppo  unities for growth."
People-Centricity
We encourage our people to “find
"their spark” and shape their career journeys. We empower people to be entrepreneurs and creators, encouraging them to su  ace ideas, big and small."
Social Responsibility
"We give back to our communities,"
and we are focused on doing the right things for our planet and the communities where we work and live.
How it all comes together
"Supercharging ProgressTM is our pledge to deliver business outcomes quickly and efficiently, with a focus on"
"pragmatism and resilience. This promise extends beyond our clients to encompass our people, the communities we serve, our shareholders and the planet as a whole."
Our Mission
"To make a positive global impact by harnessing the power of technology for our clients and our people. We strive to uplift our diverse workforce to deliver innovative business solutions while maintaining the highest standards of integrity, sustainability and social responsibility."
Who we are
What we
want to achieve
Purpose
We bring together the
best of technology and                                         our people to supercharge
"progress, for our clients, people, communities and planet."
Supercharging
Progress
Values
"Integrity, Inclusion, Value Creation, People Centricity and Social Responsibility"
What
"customers, employees can see through our culture"
What an
organization really cares about
Employee Value Proposition
"To help our people find their spark that intrigues, motivates, and inspires them so they maximize their potential and help supercharge progress."
"Our Code,"
our responsibilities
Purpose of the Code
Our Code is a guide to help each of us do what’s right. It
"highlights the principles we must follow as we go about our daily work. Our Code helps us build a culture of ethics and compliance, manage risk and supercharge progress."
How to use the Code
Read our Code to understand the expected behaviors when
"dealing with our people, our clients, our company and our communities. Refer to the Code when you are unsure about a policy or an ethical issue. Use the contacts and resources outlined in the Code to learn more or seek suppo  . Our Code is where we look first to align our actions with our values."
Applicability
"Our Code applies to all HCLTechies, HCLTech officers, board members, consultants and contractors, including persons associated with HCLTech, wherever we do business."
Waivers and amendments
"Our Code is a living document. From time to time, we may make changes to adapt to evolving business needs and legal updates. All such changes must be approved by a majority of Top Management. In rare cases, HCLTech may waive ce ain provisions of our Code, policies or procedures. All such waivers must be approved, in writing, by a majority of Top Management."
Everyone’s  responsibilities
"We are all responsible for knowing our Code and acting in accordance with our policies, procedures and the law. We comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, wherever we do business."
"We use our best judgment and apply the strictest ethical standard in our choices. When our Code expects a higher standard of conduct than the law, we follow our Code."
"When local custom or policy conflicts with our Code, anywhere we do business, we follow our Code."
Remote work
"In recent years, more of us are working remotely. Even those of us who don’t repo   to an office on a regular basis must follow our Code. Our Code applies to all our HCLTechies, regardless of where they work."
Special responsibilities of
People Managers
"In addition to the above, People Managers must:"
"• Make sure all members of their teams are working in accordance with our Code, our policies and the law"
"• Keep HCLTechies up to date on trainings related to our Code, our policies and ethics and compliance issues"
• Be available as a first contact whenever ethics and compliance questions or concerns arise
• Set an example of how best to live our HCLTech values
Special responsibilities of board members
Our board members play an impo  ant role in
steering HCLTech at a high level. All board members must:
• Remain up to date on HCLTech and the factors that affect our business
• A end all board meetings and pa icipate in all commi ees they are a pa  of
"• Monitor our policies and repo ing mechanisms to make sure they are current, effective and in alignment with our values and the law"
• Protect the legitimate interests of HCLTech
• Don’t take pa in illegal or unethical trade or investment practices
How we choose the right course of action
"At times, choosing the right course of action may be difficult."
"If you are unsure of what to do, ask yourself these questions:"
Would this action
violate any laws or regulations?
Would this action
violate any HCLTech policies or our Code?
Would this action
conflict with HCLTech’s core values?
Would this action
harm HCLTech in any way?
"If the answer to any of these questions is yes, do not proceed. Talk to your People Manager,"
your team members or any other resource listed in this Code to find a be  er way forward.
We speak up
"Seeking help, speaking up"
We may at times become aware of unethical or illegal
"conduct, or violations of our Code. We are all responsible for speaking up when this happens. We protect HCLTech’s reputation and our ability to innovate in a positive workplace when we hold ourselves accountable."
"If you ever suspect anyone of a violation, or need help"
"with an ethical ma  er, use one or more of these options:"
• Repo  the issue to the Global Ethics Helpline
• MyHCLTech > Top Ribbon (Main Menu) > Ethics Helpline
"• In Germany and the Netherlands,"
write to whistleblower@hcltech.com
Discuss the issue with your People Manager
Anonymity and confidentiality
"If you wish to remain anonymous when making a complaint,"
we will take all reasonable steps to protect your identity. Be aware that remaining anonymous may affect our ability to investigate. We may need to reveal the identity of the person repo ing a suspected violation if identification is:
• Necessary to effectively respond to the repo 
• Required by law
• Required as pa  of a disciplinary proceeding
"We keep all details of investigations confidential, to the"
"extent allowable by law. Only the Ethics Commi ee (EC), the Internal Investigation team and those directly involved in the issue will learn details of the investigation, and only on an as-needed basis."
What happens when we repo 
an issue?
"We take all repo s very seriously. Any time a repo is submi ed, we follow these steps:"
"Step 1: The Ombudsperson will carry out a preliminary investigation of a Complaint to decide if a full investigation is required based on facts alleged in the Complaint. If a full investigation is not required, the"
"Ombudsperson shall submit its repo   to the EC. If the Ombudsperson decides that a full investigation is required, such Complaints shall be forwarded to the Internal Investigation team."
Step 2: The Internal Investigation team shall
We do not retaliate
"We are resilient in the face of challenges, and we  encourage a culture where all HCLTechies feel free to speak out. That’s why we do not tolerate retaliation of any kind against someone who makes a repo  in good faith. Any threats against such a person, including threats of physical harm, job loss or salary reduction, are strictly prohibited."
Anyone who feels intimidated for having made a repo  may contact the EC.
Consequences of non-compliance
"To uphold our reputation for integrity and protect HCLTech, we must act in accordance with our values, our Code and  the law. Those who violate our Code, our policies, or any laws or regulations will be held accountable. Consequences may include but are not limited to the following:"
decide upon fu  her investigation and next steps in
consultation with the EC.
"Step 3: The Internal Investigation team shall submit its interim repo   to the Chief People Officer “CPO” and its final repo   to the EC, and any disciplinary action shall be decided by the Chief People Officer “CPO” in"
"consultation with the EC, as needed. We do not retaliate."
• Verbal warning
• Wri  en warning
• Probation
• Termination of employment
• Legal action
We do what’s right
for our people
Doing what’s right
"We suppo all our HCLTechies in being the most authentic versions of themselves. By removing barriers in our Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive culture, we make HCLTech stronger."
Why we do what’s right
"Diversity brings fresh perspectives and improves our insights and decision-making. By including diverse voices and cultures, we strengthen our business. We become more resilient and more innovative, and we a  ract a wide variety of talents. The barriers and biases we remove in pursuit"
"of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion make way for a future of supercharged  progress."
How we do what’s right
"We embrace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion when we:"
• Include and seek inputs from all HCLTechies
• Build our workforce with diversity in mind
• Actively seek out and listen to the points of view of others
"• Suppo  and nu  ure our differences, and remove barriers to inclusion"
• Confront bias in ourselves and others with empathy and respect
• Speak out to protect our point of view and the views of others
"Our commitment to five pillars of Diversity,"
Equity and Inclusion
"We believe “Inclusion is achieved when people believe that their unique and authentic self is valued, they are treated equally and with respect, they feel safe while expressing their opinion and when they are empowered to take decisions to grow and do their best.” Our areas of focus are on five pillars:"
• Gender inclusion to empower women
• Disability inclusion to accommodate HCLTechies with disabilities
"• Cultural inclusion to make sure all cultural backgrounds, ways of working and lifestyles are respected"
• LGBTQIA+ inclusion to foster a safe and suppo ive space for all LGBTQIA+ people and their allies
"• Veteran inclusion to include HCLTechies who have served in the Armed Forces, are serving or plan to serve."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I recently had an accident that has severely impacted my life. Doctors say I won’t walk again and will need to use a wheelchair. Am I going to be able to feel comfo  able going to work again?
A: Going through a challenge like yours cannot
"be easy, but know that HCLTech will make every accommodation to make sure you can continue to thrive at work. We design our workspaces with"
"accessibility in mind, and we will make whatever other adjustments we can to keep you independent. We want all our HCLTechies to feel included, just the way they are."
Learn More Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Doing what’s right
"We create and maintain a respectful work environment, free from harassment of any kind. We all have a right to feel respected and suppo ed at work."
Why we do what’s right
"Our top priority is to do our best work — to innovate within the value zone between our HCLTechies and our clients. To make this happen, we must treat each other with respect, always. A respectful work environment reduces distractions and encourages contributions. We do not tolerate offensive behavior, bullying or harassment in any form because such behavior threatens our purpose, our unity and our focus."
How we do what’s right
We treat each other with respect when we:
• Approach all interactions with professionalism and tact
• Value the dignity of all our co-workers and their contributions
• Don’t say or do anything others may find offensive
"• Don’t take pa   in any behavior that could create a hostile environment, including harassment and intimidation"
"• Repo  any offensive, harassing or intimidating behavior to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline"
Understanding harassment
"One way to make sure we avoid harassment, and speak up when we see it, is to make sure we understand it. Harassment can be about:"
"• What we say or write, including slurs, stereotypes and offensive or abusive language"
"• What we do, such as unwelcome touching, making sexual advances or blocking a co-worker’s path"
"• What we display, including sexually explicit images left on a screen or hung up in a workspace as well as printed slogans or posters that others may find offensive"
Remember that harassment isn’t about what we intend by our words or actions but how others might perceive them.
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I always dress professionally, and I take pride in how I look. Recently, a co-worker sta ed giving me compliments, which I usually don’t mind. But this co-worker sta ed saying things about my body that made me uncomfo  able, and he has sta ed hovering around my workspace when I am trying to concentrate. What should I do?"
A: Your co-worker’s behavior is unacceptable. You
should first let him know that his words and actions are making you uncomfo  able. If you are not
"comfo  able talking to him, or if talking to him doesn’t help, discuss the issue with your People Manager."
You may also repo  your co-worker’s behavior to the Global Ethics Helpline. You should never feel uncomfo  able or disrespected as pa  of HCLTech.
Doing what’s right
"We make all hiring and promotion decisions based on merit, and we don’t discriminate against any person or group."
Why we do what’s right
"Just as our commitment to diversity brings us unique insights, our commitment to equal oppo  unity brings us the most qualified HCLTechies. Equal oppo  unity opens our hiring and promotion process to all, regardless of identity, so that we may make the best possible use of the talents and abilities that sustain our success. As a company commi  ed to fairness, we insist on fairness in all our employment decisions."
How we do what’s right
We promote equal oppo  unity when we:
"• Treat each other fairly, with a focus on the qualifications, experience and value we bring to HCLTech"
"• Make all hiring, training and promotion decisions based on merit"
• Make all accommodations for HCLTechies with disabilities
• Don’t discriminate against any person or group on the basis of a protected characteristic
• Repo  any instances of discrimination to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
HCLTech encourages HCLTechies to repo  any
concerns through:
• Global Ethics Helpline on www.hcltech.com.
• Employees based out of Germany or the Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievances by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
•  External stakeholders to repo  any concerns through h   ps://app.convercent.com/en-US/  LandingPage/dceb2afa-6c00-ec11-a983-  000d3ab9f062?_=1630515026902
Understanding  discrimination
"Though we make evaluations based on qualifications, we don’t discriminate on the basis of a protected characteristic. Protected characteristics include but are not limited to:"
• Race or ethnicity
• Age
• Religion
"• Sex, gender, sexual orientation or gender identity"
• Disability
We embrace all of our differences and focus on the skills and abilities we bring to HCLTech.
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I’ve been working on cloud architecture for one  of our clients for several months, and my skill level in this area has improved dramatically. Even my co- workers say that they are impressed with how I have grown. Yet when I had a pe ormance review with"
"my People Manager, he said that I was not eligible for a raise or promotion. Is it possible that I’m being discriminated against because I’m a woman?"
"A: It’s possible, but we would need more information"
to know for sure. Your People Manager may have responded the way he did for a variety of
"reasons. Have men on your team been promoted for comparable work? Do you have other reasons to believe you are being treated unfairly? If so, raise these concerns with your People Manager, or make a repo  to the Global Ethics Helpline or  whistleblower@hcltech.com (for employees in Germany and the Netherlands)."
Doing what’s right
"Safety is a top priority, and we complete all work tasks in the safest, healthiest ways possible. We don’t compromise when it comes to our health and safety."
Why we do what’s right
"Our physical and mental health are essential to achieving our purpose as a business. We cannot stay resilient in the face of challenges if our workplaces are unsafe in any way. We are all responsible for looking out for each other,"
"following our safety procedures and protocols, and staying aware of our work environments. This enables us to do what we do best: break boundaries and advance technology."
How we do what’s right
We keep our workplaces safe and healthy when we:
"• Don’t work recklessly, take unnecessary risks or direct others to do so"
• Are aware of our Occupational Health & Safety Policy and Environmental Policy
• Know all emergency safety procedures and a  end all safety trainings
• Watch out for each other to make sure we are staying safe on the job
"• Don’t work under the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol, and don’t bring controlled substances to work"
• Talk to the repo  ing People Manager or HR to get any needed suppo   for mental or emotional health
"• Don’t bring weapons of any kind to work, and repo  any weapons you may see to the repo ing People Manager or HR Pa ner"
• Repo  any unsafe working conditions or processes on the tool ‘Incidents Occupational Health & Safety and environment’ available on www.myhcltech.com
"• Resolve disagreements calmly, and repo  any acts or threats of violence to the repo  ing People Manager or HR Pa ner"
"• Follow all best practices, policies and procedures for regular work tasks"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I spend a lot of time in front of my computer, and though I am careful from an ergonomic standpoint, I sometimes experience serious eye strain. Some days, I feel as if my vision is ge  ing worse. Is this a safety issue?"
A: Yes. Discuss your problem with your People Manager or HR immediately. We can make sure that your workspace has optimal lighting and that your computer screen has the best contrast for reducing eye strain. You can also take sho  breaks to rest your eyes as needed.
Doing what’s right
"We are prepared for what the future might bring, and  we take all steps to keep our people and our workplaces secure, every day."
Why we do what’s right
"We are optimistic about the future, and we are also pragmatists. As pragmatic optimists, we accept the possibility that crises may arise and accept"
"full responsibility for being prepared. We show our preparedness in the daily habits that reduce risk and maximize security, and also in the plans we have in place to respond to challenges that may arise. Our long-term success depends on both."
How we do what’s right
We keep our people secure when we:
• Know our roles in emergency situations
• A  end all trainings and drills related to security and crisis management
• Remain aware of our surroundings and of potential security risks
• Share concerns and best practices related to security and crisis management
• Communicate transparently and respectfully with anyone affected by any crises or security breaches we may experience
• Promptly repo  to a People Manager any compromises to workplace security we may become aware of
• Keep all workplaces locked and secure according to our policies and procedures
Leadership in an emergency
"When a crisis arises, designated leaders have special responsibilities. Though we hope no one will ever need to take on such responsibilities, preparedness could be essential to survival. If you have a designated leadership role in an emergency situation, make yourself visible and available. Others will be looking to you."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I have a license to carry a firearm where I live. Shouldn’t I be able to bring a weapon to work?
"A: No. As a ma  er of policy, we do not allow HCLTechies to bring weapons of any kind to work because some HCLTechies may feel threatened by this. We want all HCLTechies to feel safe, secure and ready to apply their skills and imaginations to impo  ant work problems."
Doing what’s right
"As a global company with a large workforce, we are"
"commi  ed to treating all our HCLTechies fairly. We comply with all employment and labor laws and regulations, anywhere we do business."
Why we do what’s right
"Treating all our HCLTechies fairly and according to the law builds our strength as a business. Though we are many, we come together as one because we value the contributions and dignity of all. Complying with all employment and labor laws is the right and responsible thing to do — it is also the sma est approach for the health of our business and our organization."
How we do what’s right
We comply with employment and labor laws when we:
"• Treat all HCLTechies fairly, whatever their role and wherever they may work"
• Honor all contracts and employment agreements
• Negotiate lawfully and in good faith with labor unions and other labor representatives
• A  end all trainings on employment and labor law and related HCLTech policies and procedures
• Repo   any violations of labor or employment law to your People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
• Follow all laws and HCLTech policies and procedures related to labor and employment
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I need to expand my team temporarily because our cloud services client has asked for more than we expected. What’s the best way to move forward?
"A: After you have approval from top management to sta  the hiring process, contact HR to make sure you are following the correct procedures. We want you to find the specialized talent that you need in the timeframe that you need it, without cu  ing any corners legally."
We do
what’s right for our clients
Doing what’s right
"We conduct all business with honesty, integrity and"
"the highest ethical standards. We have zero tolerance for bribery, and we never offer or accept any improper incentives, anywhere we do business."
Why we do what’s right
Our clients know they can count on us—that we are there
"when they need us. In pa  , that’s because of the solutions we provide, but it’s also because we do not tolerate corruption. Corruption in all its forms damages reputations and does harm to relationships. We maintain our resilience in the face of challenges, and retain our clients’ trust, when we conduct business on our merits, and only on our merits."
What is an “improper payment”?
Improper payments can come in many forms. Here
are a few examples:
"• Bribe: A bribe can be anything of value, including cash, gifts, inside information, favors and hospitality. Any of these can be considered a bribe if they are intended to gain an improper business advantage."
"• Kickback: This is a payment made to someone who has facilitated a business arrangement, such as a contract. The payment is improper because it is only for securing the contract, not for any  goods or service."
"• Facilitating payment: This type of payment is often made to a government official to expedite a standard process, such as checking goods when they are shipped across a border. In that case, a facilitating payment might allow the goods to pass through customs more quickly than others."
How we do what’s right
We prevent bribery and corruption when we:
• Keep accurate records of all payments
• Never offer anything of value to gain a business advantage
• Never accept anything of value from a third pa  y we are negotiating with
• Never accept anything of value from a third pa  y we know or suspect is offering it to gain a business advantage
• Never offer anything of value to a government official or agent to expedite a routine process
• Never offer or accept a bribe or kickback
• Never use a third pa  y to make payments we would not make ourselves
• Follow HCLTech policy on giving and receiving payments
• Repo  any concerns about improper payments to a manager or to the Global Ethics Helpline
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I am working on a project to help customize digital customer service for a large company. The software we are helping to develop operates across international boundaries. Recently, I was contacted by a government official who suggested he could help HCLTech and our business pa ner bypass the encryption regulations in his country if we were willing to pay him in cash. What should I do?"
"A: This government official is asking for a bribe. Do not make any payments and repo   the incident immediately to your manager. You may also repo this to the Global Ethics Helpline. We never make improper payments to bypass a regulation, or for any other reason."
Learn More Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy—Global
Doing what’s right
"As a global company, we must be aware of laws in many"
"different countries. We comply with these laws and regulations, as well as all international trade regulations that affect our business."
Why we do what’s right
"We’re a pioneering company when it comes to breaking boundaries to advance technology. However, we respect national borders and follow international trade regulations."
"We pioneer responsibly because our business relies on fair and predictable norms. Violating laws, regulations and treaties that govern international business could harm our reputation and bring serious consequences."
Data privacy
"As a technology services company, we must safeguard the data that we gather and apply on a daily basis. Data privacy laws vary significantly around the world — a rule, regulation or standard that applies in Europe may not apply in India or the United States. We remain current on the state of data privacy law, anywhere and everywhere we do business. Our clients, and our reputation, depend on it."
How we do what’s right
We conduct business with integrity when we:
• Learn all relevant laws and regulations before marketing or distributing across international borders
• Conduct thorough due diligence when evaluating business pa ners around the world
• Follow all restrictions regarding data privacy in all countries where we do business
• Don’t do business with any entities on a U.S. or EU embargo or sanctions list
• Follow all policies and procedures related to international trade
"• Collect, use and process personal information only for legitimate business purposes"
• Process personal information in line with the privacy principles defined in HCLTech’s Global Privacy Policy and binding corporate rules
• Act in accordance with applicable laws and relevant contractual obligations
• Repo  any suspected data breach immediately
• Adhere to the highest security standards when we handle personal information
• Repo   any violations of our international trade policies or the law to your People Manager or to the
Global Ethics Helpline
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I am working in a team that is helping digitize an
"automobile manufacturing process. We found a way to get the sensors we need for a great price, but the company that makes them is located in a country currently on an embargo list. Is there a way we can work with this business?"
"A: No. Unfo  unately, you will have to find another"
way to acquire these sensors. We don’t do business involving countries on any U.S. or EU embargo lists.
Learn More
Anti–Money Laundering Policy — Global  Expo  Compliance Policy
Human Rights Policy
Doing what’s right
We win business by providing imaginative solutions to our clients. We don’t seek unfair advantages in the marketplace — we don’t want or need to.
Why we do what’s right
"Since 1976, HCLTech has been competing for business using ingenuity and innovation. We welcome competition because we know it makes us be  er, and because it is ultimately"
"be  er for our clients and the marketplace as a whole. We’ve earned our reputation as a resilient and pioneering tech company. To protect that reputation and avoid serious consequences, we follow all fair-competition laws."
How we do what’s right
We compete honestly and fairly when we:
"• Avoid discussing pricing, bidding or how we divide markets with our competitors"
• Avoid stating anything negative or untrue about our competitors or their products and services
• Use only public sources to gather competitive information
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws related to fair competition"
• Repo  any violation of our fair-competition policies or the law to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
What are anticompetitive
practices?
Anticompetitive practices are methods of limiting competition or seeking an unfair advantage in the marketplace. Examples include:
• Price fixing: competitors agree to use the same price so that clients cannot seek out the best value
• Bid rigging: competitors agree in advance who will win a competitive bidding process
"• Market division: competitors divide territories and agree to stay in their own, thus reducing client choice"
• Group boyco  : two or more competitors refuse to do business with a specific person or company
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: At a recent expo for aircraft interiors, I ran into an old college friend. We took a li  le time to catch up, and I learned that she now works for a competitor of ours. She said she was curious about our pricing and that she would be happy to share pricing information from her company, if I was ever interested. I politely ended the conversation without commi  ing to anything. Was that the right thing to do?"
A: Yes. Comparing pricing could be seen as an a empt
"at price fixing, an anticompetitive practice. We allow the quality of our work to win business, and we don’t pursue unfair advantages in the marketplace."
Learn More Antitrust and Fair Competition Policy
Doing what’s right
"We pioneer technology responsibly, innovating for the"
greater good of our business and for society as a whole. We don’t allow technology to work against human interests or the law.
Why we do what’s right
We believe in making improvements by using our
"imaginations to apply technology. As we innovate into new territory, we are careful to consider the impacts of new technologies. We also know that new laws and regulations will emerge in response to these technologies, and that such laws can vary greatly depending on country or region. We don’t violate these laws, anywhere we do business."
How we do what’s right
We use technology wisely when we:
• Design and implement our technology solutions with human needs in mind
• Optimize our technologies for business purposes only
"• Make sure that our technologies use and deliver fair, actionable information, without bias"
• Align our technologies with strict data privacy protocols and regulations
"• Follow all policies, laws and regulations related to technology use and development"
Bias and discrimination
"Some have raised concerns that a  ificial intelligence and web-based algorithms have bias encoded into them. Because we are commi  ed to inclusion and fairness, we design our solutions with these concerns in mind. We want our global reach to be authentic — truly representative of and tailored to the many kinds of people our innovations reach."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I have been hearing a lot lately about the potential of technology to spread misinformation and even outright lies through “deep fakes.” What do we do as software engineers to prevent these kinds of things from happening?
"A: We cannot be responsible for what happens outside HCLTech, even if we develop and use technologies that could be used for the wrong reasons. We believe that technology is a tool for improving human lives, even though some may use it for other purposes. As one of our software engineers, you do the right thing when you code ethically and lawfully, and when you raise impo  ant questions in the face of challenges."
Doing what’s right
"We are privileged to work with and for governments, providing a variety of services and solutions. We embrace the responsibility that goes along with this work, and we bring our high ethical standards to these contracts."
Why we do what’s right
"Our pragmatic optimism guides us in working with all our clients, and we recognize that governments may have different requirements for doing business. Governments must be careful in using public funds, and we honor the faith and trust they put in us. In addition, government contracts may come with unique requirements and stronger penalties for violations. We are careful to follow these requirements and laws so that we can continue to help governments meet their technological challenges."
How we do what’s right
We comply with government contracting rules when we:
• Fully meet all our commitments on government contracts
• Communicate honestly and transparently with governments on all aspects of a contract
• Don’t offer anything of value to government officials or anyone working for a state-owned entity that exceeds the annual limit of USD $50.
"• Honor all terms of government contracts, including those that may create special rules around pricing and discounts"
"• Follow all policies, laws and regulations regarding government contracts and procurement processes"
Government employees
and agencies
"In addition to leaders, representatives and their staff, governments employ many people for many different reasons. Governments are often"
"responsible for running multiple agencies, and these agencies may themselves hire outside contractors. We must treat any of these entities with the same high ethical standards. Ultimately, we are serving  the public whenever we pa ner with any government-related entity."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I am working on a government contract to develop educational solutions. One of my contacts within the government is bothering me constantly for updates. What can I do?
"A: Though you may find it distracting, you need to communicate with this contact. We are fully open, honest and transparent when working with the government, and we provide all required repo  s"
"in a timely fashion. If you feel this obligation is overwhelming, talk to your People Manager about receiving extra suppo ."
Doing what’s right
We are proud of our work and reputation. We uphold our integrity by sharing honest details about our products and services.
Why we do what’s right
"At HCLTech, an honest presentation of our products and services cannot help but be compelling. By bringing our expe ise, resilience and imagination into everything we do, we know we can win business. Relationships built on transparency and trust create the best long-term value for our company."
How we do what’s right
We market our products honestly when we:
• Don’t exaggerate or misrepresent the capabilities of our products and services
• Estimate project timelines carefully and accurately
• Don’t make disparaging remarks about our competitors
• Don’t give legal advice
• Don’t infringe on copyrights or other intellectual prope  y
• Make sure all adve isements and other marketing materials follow all laws and regulations
Protecting our clients
Honest marketing creates accurate expectations from our clients. It also protects our clients and other consumers who may use our technological innovations. We are transparent about possible risks
of our products and services so that others know how to use them responsibly.
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I’m writing marketing copy that needs to be published next week. One of the claims I want to make is suppo ed by a preliminary repo   that won’t be released until next month. Can I include the information from the repo   before it is published?
"A: No. In your copy, you will have to change the claim and omit suppo  ing information from the repo  . We don’t publish marketing materials that are not backed by credible, verifiable research."
Doing what’s right
"When building and maintaining business pa nerships,"
we seek not just economic value but also the right values. Our mission is to pa  ner with those who share our high ethical standards.
Why we do what’s right
Our suppliers and other business pa ners help us deliver high-quality solutions to our clients. We rely on them to suppo  and collaborate with us as we pursue our mission.
"Any compromise in values or violations of the law by our business pa ners could harm our reputation, so we must prioritize shared values and ethics when"
pa nering with others.
Global Procurement Services (GPS)
"HCLTech suppo   s our business units’ supplier management through Global Procurement Services (GPS). With a commitment to trust and transparency,"
GPS works globally and across all categories of products and services to enable third-pa  y
"pa nerships. GPS helps us work and win together, building strong supplier relationships, wherever we do business."
How we do what’s right
We make sure to work with suppliers who share our
values when we:
"• Treat all suppliers and business pa ners fairly, regardless of the business value of the relationship"
"• Base all decisions on objective criteria such as price, availability and quality, as well as values"
• Avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest with regard to a supplier/business pa ner
"• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment, especially when in the process of selecting a supplier/business pa  ner"
"• Seek to understand our supplier/business pa ners through open, honest communication, especially if issues arise"
• Don’t share our supplier/business pa ners’ confidential business information without permission
• Conduct due diligence to make sure all supplier/business pa  ners follow the law and are commi  ed to ethical business practices
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I was recently contacted by a sales agent who might be able to get us business in a country where we’ve never worked before. Can I talk to this agent on behalf of HCLTech?
A: No. You must first contact Global Procurement
"Services (“GPS”) to begin the due diligence process for a new pa nership. When this process has begun, your involvement may be requested in taking next steps to establish a pa nership."
Learn More Procurement Policy
We do
what’s right
for our company
Doing what’s right
We put the interests of HCLTech ahead of our own personal
"interests, and we don’t put ourselves in situations where our integrity or objectivity could be compromised."
Why we do what’s right
Objective business decisions are the best business decisions. A conflict of interest can inte  ere with our ability to make decisions fairly and without bias. We avoid such conflicts so that we can collaborate on solutions for our clients and business pa ners without divided loyalties.
"Even the appearance of a conflict of interest can harm  our reputation, so we disclose any relationships that could cause concern."
What is a “conflict of interest”?
A conflict of interest may arise when an employee’s personal interests are not consistent with the responsibilities of the position. A conflict of interest can involve any of the following:
• Personal relationships with family members or romantic pa  ners
• Activities such as hobbies or outside employment
"• Investments, including owning shares in HCLTech’s competitor"
"• Association, such as serving on the board of an outside organization"
How we do what’s right
We avoid conflicts of interest when we:
• Make all business decisions objectively and without favoritism
• Remain ale   for any situations or relationships that could compromise our objectivity
"• Remove ourselves from hiring decisions involving friends or relatives, and make sure they don’t repo  to us as employees"
• Don’t pa  icipate in the selection process for a supplier or business pa  ner that employs a friend or relative
• Don’t hold a financial interest in a supplier or business pa ner of HCLTech
• Disclose holdings of 5 percent or more in a publicly traded company or a company in the same sector as HCLTech
• Disclose to a People Manager or HR any potential conflicts of interest that may affect us
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: One of our suppliers has asked me to join its advisory board. Would this be a conflict of interest?
A: Serving on a supplier’s advisory board might appear to give that supplier an unfair advantage. We avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. Discuss the ma er with HR before accepting the invitation.
Learn More Conflict of Interest Policy — Global
Doing what’s right
We build positive relationships with our actual and potential
"clients, business pa ners or any third pa  y that HCLTech does business with. That means that we don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment that could influence a business decision."
Why we do what’s right
"Our business pa ners help us to achieve our goals, and we enjoy the positive and productive relationships we build with them. To keep those relationships healthy, we don’t offer or accept inappropriate gifts or ente  ainment. Doing so could create an expectation of receiving a business favor in return. We build and maintain our business relationships with integrity because we believe our success comes from the quality of what we make and do."
How we do what’s right
We give and receive gifts and ente  ainment responsibly
when we:
• Accept only gifts and ente  ainment that are nominal in value and infrequent
• Document any gifts or ente  ainment that we give or accept
• Don’t ask for gifts or ente  ainment
"• Don’t offer or accept cash or cash equivalents, including gift cards"
• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment intended to influence a business decision
• Don’t offer or accept gifts or ente  ainment from a potential business pa ner during a bidding or contract negotiation process
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I’m traveling on business to collaborate with one of our marketing firms. After our first day working together, the contact person at the firm offered me lunch at his company’s expense. Can I accept?"
"A: Yes, you can accept, as long as the value of the lunch is modest. Be sure to follow all procedures for documenting the meal you received, and contact the Ethics and Trade Compliance (E&TC) team if you have any questions by writing to COBEC.Compliance@ hcltech.com."
What is a “business gift”?
"A business gift is anything of value presented, accepted or won in the context of a business relationship, for which the recipient does not pay fair value."
"Common examples of business gifts include meals, event or spo    tickets and club memberships. Though these examples are not automatically inappropriate, if you are ever unsure, you should contact the Ethics and Trade Compliance (E&TC) team by writing to  COBEC.Compliance@hcltech.com. Ce   ain value restrictions may apply to even customary and infrequent  gifts."
Doing what’s right
"We don’t use material, non-public information for"
"personal financial gain, and we don’t share such information with others."
Why we do what’s right
"In the course of doing our daily work, we may become aware of material, non-public information, from either HCLTech or one of our business pa ners. We don’t use  or share such information because doing so could disto "
"financial markets. Insider trading gives an unfair advantage to those with access to non-public information, and it can lead to serious penalties."
How we do what’s right
We avoid insider trading when we:
• Share inside information only with our co-workers who need to know for business purposes
"• Don’t share inside information with anyone outside HCLTech, including family members"
• Don’t buy or sell securities in HCLTech or any other publicly traded company when we have inside information
• Don’t pass along inside information to someone who may buy or sell securities based on that information
• Don’t suggest that others trade on inside information
• Follow all policies and procedures to protect inside information from accidental disclosure
"What is “material, non-public"
information”?
Much of what we do as a business is not immediately
"made public for both practical and strategic reasons. If this information could be of value to investors, it is considered material and should not be shared. Some examples include:"
• A pending merger or acquisition
• The upcoming resignation of an executive
• A planned stock repurchase or split
"• A pending earnings repo  , pa  icularly if its results are unexpected"
• The upcoming purchase or sale of a major asset
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: At dinner with my husband, I mentioned that one"
"of our business pa  ners was planning to buy back some of its own shares. He told me the next evening that he had bought shares in the company, assuming the value would go up after the buyback. Did I make a mistake?"
A: Yes. You have inadve ently given your husband inside information that he then used to purchase a security. You must write to the Global Ethics Helpline immediately to determine the best course of action.
Learn More
Code of Conduct on Prohibition of Insider Trading  Insider Trading Code
Policy for Inquiry in Case of Violations of Insider Trading Code
Policy for Taking Actions on Non-Compliance of Insider Trading Code of the Company
Doing what’s right
We are careful with the information assets that drive our business and allow us to communicate and accomplish our daily work tasks. We keep them protected at all times.
Why we do what’s right
"As an innovative technology company, we have developed and acquired a variety of information assets. These assets are a key pa  of our business, affecting everything from how we set ourselves apa  strategically to how we manage client and employee data on a day-to-day basis. Our assets represent our decades of hard work, and protecting them will keep us innovating well into the future."
How we do what’s right
We protect our information assets when we:
"• Make sure that only authorized users have access to our networks, devices, applications and file directories"
"• Make sure company devices are safe and secure at all times, including removable media, both on- and off-site"
• Don’t open suspicious emails or click unfamiliar hyperlinks
• Follow best practices for managing and updating user IDs and passwords
"• Make sure company records are organized, secure and easy to access"
• Maintain and dispose of company records according to our records retention schedule
• Follow any legal hold that may be placed on a record
• Share confidential and proprietary information only with HCLTechies who need to know for business purposes
• Follow all policies and protocols for keeping confidential information secure
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws for protecting employee and client data"
What is “confidential information”?
We create many kinds of confidential information in the course of doing business. Some examples include:
"• Proprietary information, such as innovative designs and formulas"
"• Intellectual prope  y, such as patents and trademarks"
"• Non-public financial information, including prices and earnings projections"
• New product and marketing plans
• Client and supplier lists
• Research and development information
"• Business plans, such as upcoming acquisitions and investments"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I was at dinner with an old friend, and he asked me about work. I got excited about a new product we’re developing and told him about it. Was this a mistake?"
"A: Though it is unlikely your friend intends to use our product idea, you should not have shared that information. We invest a lot of time and energy into developing new products and ideas, and we do not"
"want another company to profit from our investment. We don’t share our confidential information, including new product development, with anyone outside HCLTech."
Learn More
Acceptable Use of Proprietary and Confidential Information from Third Pa  ies Policy  Records Retention and Destruction Policy
Doing what’s right
We take responsibility for our financial health and viability
"as a business. To this end, we keep and maintain complete and accurate financial records."
Why we do what’s right
Our financial assets play a role in defining how much and how quickly we can innovate. We keep complete and accurate records so that we can meet our obligations in the present and pioneer into the future. Maintaining proper
"financial records also builds confidence and trust among our investors, clients, business pa ners and other stakeholders."
Financial records
"Our financial assets include our money and anything that can be conve ed to money, including stocks and bonds. We keep track of these assets through our financial records, which must be handled according to our retention policies and internal controls. Key financial records include:"
• Balance sheets
• Income statements
• Cash flow statements
• Retained earnings statements
• Invoices
How we do what’s right
We respect our financial assets when we:
"• Maintain honest and accurate books and records, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the law"
• Don’t set up secret or unrecorded funds for any reason
• Submit all financial books and records to auditors in a timely manner
• File all tax information accurately and in a timely manner
• Don’t use financial records to mislead anyone about our business
• Don’t falsify financial records or a  empt to commit fraud of any kind
• Repo   any concerns about misleading or fraudulent records to a People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all policies, internal controls and procedures, and the law when handling financial assets and records"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I work in accounting, and I recently got a surprising request from one of our client account team leads."
"She said that some of the revenue from the client needed to be reversed out for this qua er and added instead to next qua er’s records. She couldn’t explain why, and I’ve never had anyone request that before."
What should I do?
A: You are right to be concerned. Contact the client
account team lead to get a be er understanding of the situation. Ask for documentation to explain the need for the change. We repo  our revenues
"accurately and in the correct period. If you are unable to get fu  her clarification, discuss the ma  er with your People Manager."
Learn More Anti–Money Laundering Policy — Global
Doing what’s right
"While on company time, we focus on our jobs and our responsibilities as HCLTechies. We use company assets for business purposes."
Why we do what’s right
"Our colleagues, clients and shareholders count on us to make judicious use of company time and physical assets. When we misuse company time and assets, we waste precious resources and harm our ability to meet our business goals."
How we do what’s right
We value our time and physical assets when we:
• Use company time and assets for business purposes
• Use common sense — occasional personal calls or emails are acceptable
• Repo  our time accurately
• Obtain prior approval for using HCLTech work product in an external venture
"• Don’t use HCLTech computers or equipment for outside businesses, or illegal or unethical activities such as gambling, pornography or other offensive content"
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: My People Manager always asks me to take care of his personal business during the workday. This includes things like picking up dry cleaning, bringing his dog to the groomer and shopping for personal gifts. Is this right?"
"A: No, it’s not right. This is a misuse of company time. It also shows a lack of respect for you and the value you bring to HCLTech. Politely ask your People Manager to stop. If that doesn’t work, or you are uncomfo  able about it, repo   it to another trusted People Manager or the Global Ethics Helpline."
Doing what’s right
"We have built our reputation for ingenuity, resilience, creativity and innovation over decades, and we act to protect and maintain it."
Why we do what’s right
"How we present ourselves to the wider world affects our prospects for the future. Messages that misrepresent us can damage our hard-earned reputation. We are careful to speak both positively and honestly about HCLTech, and in many cases, HCLTech speaks best through designated spokespersons."
How we do what’s right
We safeguard our reputation when we:
• Speak positively and honestly about HCLTech
• Don’t share confidential or sensitive information
• Forward outside inquiries from the media or investors to our designated spokespersons
• Clearly distinguish our own views from those of HCLTech when using social media
• Clearly distinguish our political views from those of HCLTech
"• Pa  icipate in politics on our own time, away from work"
• Don’t make political contributions on behalf of HCLTech
• Don’t a  empt to lobby or influence government officials or representatives
Social media
"Social media is a powe  ul way to build connections and share events, ideas and information. However, social media must be used responsibly. When posting to our personal social media accounts, we are"
"cou eous and respectful, and we don’t po  ray our own views as those of HCLTech. If our role at HCLTech involves engaging with social media, we are positive and honest. In either case, we don’t share sensitive or confidential information. By communicating ethically, we make sure that social media only enhances our reputation."
Doing what’s right – in action
Q: I was at a cybersecurity conference when an investor approached me with some questions he wanted to ask. I told him a li  le bit about why I was at the conference and then excused myself. Was that the right thing to do?
"A: Yes. We do not discuss HCLTech business with outside investors or media unless we have prior authorization. In the future, you may share the contact information of our designated"
spokespersons with anyone who has similar inquiries.
Learn More Social Media Policy
We do what’s
right for our communities and our planet
Doing what’s right
"We create long-term value for all our stakeholders, and"
making and honoring our ESG commitments helps us do that.
Why we do what’s right
"The longevity of our business depends on sustainability. To achieve sustainability, we must work with a number of stakeholders, including our suppliers, clients"
"and organizations such as the United Nations. Our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) commitments set clear and specific goals for how we help both HCLTech and our planet thrive."
How we do what’s right
We honor our ESG commitments when we:
"• A end all ESG trainings and meetings, and remain informed about our ESG commitments"
• Design our business processes to run sustainably
"• Foster Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in our work culture"
• Pa ner with suppliers who share our ESG commitments
• Hold ourselves accountable for meeting our high ethical standards
• Follow all policies and procedures related to our ESG commitments
Doing what’s right
We take responsibility for protecting our planet and
minimizing our impact on the environment.
Why we do what’s right
"Our business affects the natural environment, and we rely on that environment to provide many of the resources"
"we need to do business. By applying our ingenuity to environmental issues such as emissions and waste, we do what’s right for our planet. And because of the resources we preserve and the efficiencies we achieve, we also do what’s right for our business."
How we do what’s right
We protect our planet when we:
• Recycle and manage our waste according to our policies and procedures
"• Turn off lights, machinery and electronics when not in use"
• Pa  icipate in power down week to reduce carbon footprints
• Innovate to design sustainable business processes and practices across our global organization
"• Carpool, use public transit or bike/cycle to work"
"• Repo  any spills, leaks or breaches of our environmental policies to your People Manager or the"
Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all environmental policies, procedures and laws"
Doing what’s right
"We respect and protect human rights, wherever we do business, and we expect the same of our business pa ners. Human trafficking and modern slavery have no place in any pa of our business."
Why we do what’s right
"Because of our commitment to humanity and our people- centric culture, we respect the rights of all individuals"
"and the dignity of labor. As a global company with a large workforce, we have a special responsibility to uphold  human rights. By rejecting child labor, unsafe working conditions, human trafficking and other violations of human rights, we improve working conditions for all and set an impo  ant ethical standard."
How we do what’s right
We respect human rights when we:
• Make sure all our HCLTechies work in safe conditions for fair pay
• Select business pa  ners with a demonstrated commitment to protecting human rights
"• Don’t use child or prison labor for any reason, anywhere we do business"
"• Repo  any violations of human rights, anywhere in our supply chain, to your People Manager or the"
Global Ethics Helpline
"• Follow all policies, procedures and laws related to human rights"
The International Labour
Organization (ILO) and the United Nations (UN)
"The ILO has prohibited all forms of child labor, as"
"well as modern slavery. The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) share these principles. We follow the standards set by these organizations. Forced labor of any kind violates our policies, values and international law."
Doing what’s right – in action
"Q: I was recently at a supplier location for a meeting, and I noticed that the employees looked very tired and overworked. They appeared to be working without breaks or shift changes. Could this be a human rights violation?"
A: It may be. Repo  your concerns to the Global Ethics Helpline. We don’t look the other way when human rights violations may be taking place.
Learn More
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Human Rights Policy
Doing what’s right
"HCLTech is apolitical. As a company, we do not contribute"
to or work for any political candidate or pa  y anywhere in the world.
Why we do what’s right
"Our HCLTechies and our clients come from all walks of life and hold various political beliefs. We honor those beliefs, as long as they are peaceful and do not advocate harm against others. As a company, while true to our values, we stay out of politics."
How we do what’s right
We stay out of politics when we:
"• Don’t contribute to, work for or endorse any political candidate or pa  y on behalf of HCLTech"
"• Don’t use company time, finances or other assets to benefit a political candidate or pa  y"
• Encourage our HCLTechies to pa  icipate in the political process on their own time
"• Engage in lawful lobbying activities to advocate for government policies, programs, laws and regulations that benefit HCLTech and our clients"
Doing what’s right
"Community is at the hea  of everything we do, which is"
why we give back. We strive to be a source code for socio- economic and environmental development.
Why we do what’s right
"Guided by our values of equity, dignity and equal  oppo  unity, we give back in ways that ma  er. Through meaningful and strategic pa  nerships, we effectively"
"leverage the “power of many” to positively impact lives and spread smiles. We work to make this world a be er place, in all possible ways."
How we do what’s right
We best contribute to our communities when we:
"• Nu  ure clean, green and healthy communities"
• Empower all community members to reach their full potential
• Promote responsible volunteerism
• Make sure our charitable activities don’t inte  ere with our work
• Don’t pressure others to pa  icipate in or donate to our favored charities
• Establish international standards of strategic planning and implementation
• Measure our impact
Our 10 Commandments of Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”)
"HCLTech invests in people, the planet and pa nerships for prosperity and"
"peace. We are guided in these effo s by our 10 Commandments, or 10 C’s."
Learn More Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
42        Contents        Message
Values
Our Code
Speak up           People           Clients          Company      Communities     Resources
Ethics & compliance at HCLTech
"To evaluate repo s and complaints, serve as a resource"
"and facilitate investigations, HCLTech has a standing Ethics Commi  ee. The commi  ee is made up of at least five members and is led by our General Counsel. The other members are drawn from our Finance, Legal and HR depa  ments."
An independent Ombudsperson will make initial
"evaluations of repo s and complaints. The Ombudsperson is independent of HCLTech and serves as a neutral pa y. Once the Ombudsperson has made a judgment, the repo or complaint is forwarded to the Ethics Commi  ee or the Audit Commi ee. Repo s involving high-level executives, directors or chairpersons go the Audit Commi  ee. All others are the responsibility of the Ethics Commi  ee."
"Through these bodies and processes, we hold ourselves accountable to our Code, our values and the law. For any violations, appropriate disciplinary action, up to and"
"including termination of employment, will be determined by our ethics and compliance procedures."
Helpful resources and contacts
"If you ever suspect anyone of a violation, or need help with an ethical ma  er, remember to use one or more of these options:"
• Repo  the issue to the Global Ethics Helpline
• MyHCLTech > Top Ribbon (Main Menu) > Ethics Helpline
"• In Germany and the Netherlands, write to  whistleblower@hcltech.com"
• Discuss the issue with your People Manager
Policies
Acceptable Use of Proprietary and Confidential Information
from Third Pa  ies Policy
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy — Global  Anti-Money Laundering Policy — Global
Antitrust and Fair Competition Policy
Business Gift and Ente  ainment Policy — Global Conflict of Interest Policy — Global
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  Energy Policy
Environmental Policy Expo  Compliance Policy
Human Rights Policy
Insider Trading Code
Policy for Inquiry in Case of Violations of  Insider Trading Code
Policy for Taking Actions on Non-Compliance of Insider  Trading Code of the Company
Procurement Policy
Record Retention and Destruction Policy Social Media Policy
Whistleblower Policy — Global
Accounting and Financial Records                                   33
Boyco  s                                                                                 23
"Bribery ............................................................................................20,  21,  43"
Business Intelligence                                                        23
Charitable Activity                                                                  41
Communicating with the Public                                         35
Community Engagement                                                       41
Company Assets                                                               34
"Confidential Information...............................................27, 32, 35, 43"
"Conflicts of Interest................................................................ 27, 29, 43"
Corporate Communication                                                27
"Data Breach .................................................................................. 17, 22, 38"
"Discrimination.....................................................................................15,     24"
"Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ..............................................13, 15, 37"
Embargoes                                                                            22
"Equal Oppo unity ............................................................................. 15, 41"
Ethical Decision Making                                                      8
Expo   Control Laws                                                          20
"Fair Business Practices...................................................20, 22, 23, 26"
Gifts and Ente  ainment                                                    30
"Government Officials.......................................................20, 21, 25, 35"
Harassment                                                                           14
Health and Safety                                                                  16
"Human Rights ............................................................................22, 39, 43"
"Insider   Trading....................................................................................31,   43"
"Intellectual Prope   y.......................................................................26, 32"
"Investigations.....................................................................................  10,    43"
Material Non-Public Information                                            31
"Money Laundering...................................................................22, 33, 43"
"Political Pa icipation and Contributions ............................ 35, 40"
"Privacy ...................................................................................................22, 24"
"Proprietary Information ............................................................... 32, 43"
"Records Management ............................................................ 21, 32, 33"
"Repo ing a Complaint ............................................................. 10, 11, 43"
Retaliation                                                                                   11
"Social Media ...................................................................................... 35, 43"
Supply Chain Management                                               39
"Sustainability  ........................................................................................ 7,   37"
"Trade............................................................................................8,  22,  29,  31"
Travel and Ente  ainment                                                  30
Using the Code                                                                   7
"Weapons ................................................................................................ 16, 17"
Workplace Violence                                                               16
hcltech.com

HCL Technologies Limited																																				
Policy for determining Material Subsidiary																																				
1. Purpose																																				
This  Policy  for  determining  Material  Subsidiary  (“Policy”)  aims  to  set  out  the  principles  for																																				
"determining a material subsidiary of HCL Technologies Limited (“Company”). This Policy seeks to record, more formally, the Company’s policy on material subsidiary and to comply with the requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR”) as may be amended from time to time."																																				
2. Definition																																				
"Material Subsidiary: A “material subsidiary” shall mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth"																																				
"exceeds the prescribed limit as defined in the SEBI LODR of the consolidated income or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year."																																				
3. Regulation of Material Subsidiaries																																				
a) The Listed Company shall not dispose of shares in its Material Subsidiary which would reduce its																																				
shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than or equal to 50% or cease the exercise of control over the Material Subsidiary without passing a special resolution in a general meeting of its shareholders except in cases where such disinvestment is made under a Scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal.																																				
"b) The selling, disposing and leasing of assets amounting to more than 20% of the assets of the Material"																																				
Subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a financial year shall require prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution unless the sale/disposal /lease is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal.																																				
c) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the Listed Company shall be a director																																				
"on the board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not, whose income or net worth exceeds the prescribed limit as defined in the SEBI LODR of the consolidated income or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year."																																				
"d) Every listed entity and its material unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India shall undertake secretarial audit and shall annex a secretarial audit report given by a company secretary in practice, in such form as may be specified, with the annual report of the listed entity."																																				
4. Procedure for determining Material Subsidiary																																				
"In order to determine the material subsidiary, the Company shall use its consolidated Audited Financial Statements of the immediately preceding accounting year and each subsidiary shall be put to test as per the definition of material subsidiary stated in this policy. At the end of every accounting year when the financial statements are approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, each of the"																																				
"Company’s subsidiaries shall be put to test. The subsidiary, that qualifies the test of material subsidiary,"																																				
shall be considered as material from that date.																																				
5. Disclosure																																				
This Policy shall be disclosed to on the Company website and web link thereto shall be provided in the annual report of the Company.																																				
6. Limitation and Amendment																																				
"Any subsequent amendment / modification in the SEBI (Listing Obligation & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Companies Act, 2013 and/or applicable laws in this regard shall automatically apply to this Policy."																																				
HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED																																				
Policy on Board Diversity																																				
"Effective Date         :     July 29-31, 2014"																																				
1. Purpose																																				
Policy on Board Diversity																																				
1.1 This policy on Board Diversity (Policy) aims to set out the principles of HCL																																				
Technologies Limited (HCL) to maintain a board of directors (Board) with a diversity of directors.																																				
2. Background																																				
2.1 HCL has had a longstanding policy of diversity in board appointments as																																				
reflected in the current composition of the Board.																																				
"2.2 This Policy therefore seeks to record, more formally, the Company’s policy on"																																				
board diversity and to comply with the requirements of Clause 49 of the Equity Listing Agreement with the stock exchanges.																																				
2.3 This policy    emphasizes our respect for people and diversity.  Our policy on																																				
board diversity is just one example of the wider application of our Value Framework.																																				
3. Principles																																				
3.1 We believe that Board diversity enhances decision-making capability and a																																				
diverse Board is more effective in dealing with organizational changes and less likely to suffer from group thinking.																																				
3.2 We recognize that Board diversity is an essential element contributing to the																																				
sustainable development of the Company.																																				
"3.3 In applying this Policy we recognize that directors are appointed by shareholders,"																																				
not the Board or the Company. The right to appoint directors is one of the most important rights exercisable by shareholders and is not sought to be fettered by this Policy. Merit and competence to serve the Board and shareholders remains the first priority.																																				
"3.4 The objectives of this Policy are, with the support of our shareholders, to have a"																																				
Board which:																																				
a) is characterized by a broad range of views arising from different experiences when																																				
discussing business;																																				
b) facilitates the making of informed and critical decisions; and																																				
"c) Promoting the interests of all our stakeholders, particularly the long term interests"																																				
"of our shareholders, fairly and effectively."																																				
4. Scope																																				
"4.1 For the purpose of this Policy, HCL considers that the concept of diversity"																																				
"incorporates a number of  different aspects, such as professional experiences, business perspectives, skills, knowledge, gender, age, cultural and educational background, ethnicity and length of service."																																				
4.1.1 Independence																																				
"The Board includes a balanced composition of Executive, Non-executive Directors"																																				
and Independent Non-executive Directors so that there is a strong element of independence in the Board. The Independent Directors shall be of sufficient caliber and stature for their views to carry weight.																																				
4.1.2 Gender																																				
HCL is committed to maintaining an environment of respect for people regardless of																																				
"their gender in all business dealings and achieving a workplace environment free of harassment and discrimination on the basis of gender, physical or mental state, race, nationality, religion, age or family status. The same principle is applied to the selection of potential candidates for appointment to the Board."																																				
4.1.3 Nationality and ethnicity																																				
"To cope with the global customer base and operations in more than 30 countries,"																																				
HCL aspires to having a Board of Directors of different nationality or ethnic backgrounds who can contribute their knowledge and understanding of the environment in which HCL operates its business.																																				
4.1.4 Skills and Experience																																				
The Board possesses a balance of skills appropriate for the requirements of the																																				
"business of the Company. The Directors have a mix of finance, academic and management backgrounds that taken together provide the Company with considerable experience in a range of activities including varied industries, education, government, banking, investment and the professions."																																				
5. Measurable Objectives																																				
5.1 The achievement of these objectives will be measurable on an objective review																																				
"by shareholders of the overall composition of the Board, the diversity of background and experience of individual directors and the effectiveness of the Board in promoting shareholders’ interests."																																				
6. Implementation																																				
6.1 This Policy has been approved and adopted by the Board of the Company. The																																				
"Nomination and Remuneration Committee (Committee) has been delegated with the overall responsibility for implementation, monitoring and periodic review of this Policy."																																				
"6.2 In assessing potential candidates for the Board, the Committee will consider the"																																				
"diversity perspectives, as set out in this Policy."																																				
"6.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing, all appointments to the Board will be based on"																																				
"merit, having regard to the ability of candidates to complement and expand the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board as a whole."																																				
6.4 The effective implementation of this Policy requires that shareholders are able																																				
"to judge for themselves whether the Board as constituted is a reflection of diversity, or a gradual move to increased diversity, on a scale and at a speed that they support. To this end we shall continue to provide sufficient information to shareholders about the size, qualifications, characteristics etc. of each individual Board member and therefore, the Board as a whole so that shareholders are aware of the composition of their Board, including diversity."																																				
7. Revision																																				
7.1 Any revisions to the Policy as recommended by the Committee will be submitted																																				
to the Board for consideration and approval.																																				
Prevention																																				
and Redressal of																																				
Sexual Harassment at Workplace Policy																																				
-																																				
India																																				
HCL Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.																																				
"No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written."																																				
Revision History:																																				
Version				From	To			Description						Author									Approved By													
1				01 03 2007	31 03 2008			First copy						C&BTeam									C&BHead													
2				01 04 2008	30 04 2009			Revision						C&BTeam									C&BHead													
3				01 05 2009	31 12 2010			Revision						C&BTeam									C&BHead													
4				01 01 2011	30 06 2011			Revision						C&BTeam									C&BHead													
5				01 07 2011	08 12 2013			Revision						C&BTeam									C&BHead													
6				09 12 2013	08 06 2015			Revision						Policy &Compliance Team									Policy &Compliance Head													
7				09 06 2015	28 02 2019			Revision						Policy &Compliance Team									Policy &Compliance Head													
8				06 09 2017	28 02 2019			Revision						Policy &Compliance Team									Policy &Compliance Head													
9				01 03 2019	28 02 2019			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
10				01 03 2019	14 02 2020			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
11				01 04 2021	25 12 2022			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
12				26 12 2022	12 03 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
13				13 03 2023	14 06 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
14				15 06 2023	02 07 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
15				03 07 2023	08 01 2024			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
16				09 01 2024	-			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
Objective:																																				
A Policy for Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment at the Workplace.																																				
"To ensure a positive and safe work environment which is free of sexual harassment, the organisation has formulated rules prohibiting Sexual Harassment at the Workplace. The objective of this policy is to provide protection against sexual harassment of employees within but not limited to the office premises and for Prevention and Redressal of complaints of sexual harassment and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto."																																				
"The policy will ensure that employees are protected against sexual harassment at all the work places, be it in public or private. This will contribute to realisation of their right to gender equality, life and liberty and equality in working conditions. The sense of security at the workplace will improve employee's participation in work, resulting in their empowerment and inclusive growth."																																				
Applicability:																																				
"This policy applies to all employees of HCL Technologies Limited, its group companies and joint ventures operating out of India (""HCLTech"") like regular, temporary, ad hoc, daily wagers, contractual staff, vendors, clients, consultants, trainees, probationers, apprentices, contract labour and also all visitors to HCLTech. Any complaints about harassment shall be treated under this policy."																																				
PolicyDetails:																																				
"a)     “Company” refers to HCL Technologies Ltd including its subsidiaries worldwide (""HCLTech"")."																																				
b)    “Complainant” refers an employee making a complaint under this policy.																																				
c)     “Employee” refers to a person/persons who is/are working on a full time employment of the Company;																																				
"d)    “Employer” refers to HCL Technologies Ltd including its subsidiaries worldwide (""HCLTech"")."																																				
e)     “Internal Committee” refers to the committee constituted by the Company as per this policy and the relevant laws in India for																																				
investigation and redressal of all sexual harassment complaints and conducting preventive activities to create an environment free from sexual harassment.																																				
"f)      “Reporting Manager (RM)” refers to any other Employee of the Company or its affiliated companies, who by nature of his"																																				
"duties, exercises authority or supervision or control over an Employee during the course of normal work hours;"																																				
g)     “Respondent” means a person against whom the complainant has made a complaint.																																				
"h)     “Workplace” - For the purposes of this policy, the expression 'workplace' or 'at work' is not confined or limited to the actual"																																				
"working place of the employees in the sense of the physical space in which paid work may be performed as per the prescribed duty hours. Workplace covers private sector organization, undertaking, enterprise, establishment, unit carrying on commercial, industrial, professional, vocational, educational, etc. including production, supply, distribution or service and also includes any place visited by the employee arising out of or during course of employment, including transportation provided by employer."																																				
"i)      'Workplace' or 'at work' would also include inter alia office parties, work-related social functions, phone calls, sending"																																				
"messages through cellular phones or email from home even on an off day, or other contacts outside office hours and work-related interactions. Thus, it is not the physical workplace that would govern, but the access that a perpetrator has to the recipient of sexually harassing behavior by virtue of a job situation or relation that is relevant."																																				
Definition of Sexual Harassment																																				
"“Sexual harassment” shall include any one or more of the following unwelcome acts or behaviours, whether directly or by implication namely:-"																																				
i.        Physical contact and advances;or																																				
ii.        A demand or request for sexual favours;																																				
iii.       Making sexually colored remarks;																																				
iv.        Showing pornography; or																																				
"v.       Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature;"																																				
The following circumstances among other circumstances if it occurs or is present in relation to or connected with any act or behaviour of sexual harassment may amount to sexual harassment.																																				
a. Implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment in her employment or																																				
b. Implied or explicit threat of detrimental treatment in her employment or																																				
c. Implied or explicit threat about her present or future employment status or																																				
d. Interference with her work or creating an intimidating or offensive or hostile work environment. You may be experiencing sexual harassment when one of the following is true:																																				
1. It is stated or understood that you must submit to the demanded or suggested behaviour in order to get or keep a job;																																				
"2. Employment decisions are based on whether or not you go along with the demanded or suggested behaviour, or"																																				
"3. The demanded or suggested behavior creates a hostile or abusive work atmosphere that changes the conditions of your job,"																																				
4. Sexual harassment could be:																																				
"i.""Quid pro quo"" i.e. “this for that”. Harassment occurs when decisions regarding employment are promised, threatened or"																																				
"given, based upon whether or not one or more employees will submit to sexually-oriented conduct. However, situations of Quid pro quo sexual harassment are far broader. In a quid pro quo situation, the sexual behavior does not have to be out rightly physical. For example, a supervisor might give the best work assignments to employees who don't spurn his/her sexually-oriented behavior and may penalize those who spurn such advances."																																				
"ii.""Hostile environment"" sexual harassment occurs where the sexually-oriented conduct of one employee creates an offensive"																																				
and unpleasant working environment for any other employee. Harassment is often about one person (or a group of people) using power inappropriately over another person/group of people. But harassment can also happen between people when there is no power relationship. It may simply create a hostile environment.																																				
iii. Sexual Harassment is a misconduct under the Disciplinary Policy of the company																																				
"❍ Types of behavior which can be considered as sexual harassment - Depending on the circumstances, each of the following kinds of behavior may be sexual harassment:"																																				
"a)   Material that is sexual in nature, sexist, sexually explicit and so on and is displayed in the workplace, circulated, or put in"																																				
"someone's workspace or belongings, or on a computer or fax machine or on the Internet or any other public display system or public place in the work premises."																																				
b)  Verbal abuse or comments that put down people because of their sex																																				
c)  Comments about people's (women/men) bodies and physical appearance																																				
d)   Tales of sexual exploits																																				
e)   Graphic descriptions of pornography																																				
f)   Pressure for dates																																				
g)  Sexually explicit gestures																																				
h)   Unwelcome touching and hugging																																				
i)    Sexist and insulting graffiti																																				
"j) Sexist jokes and cartoons. There is a difference between harmless humor which may refer to gender, race and so on and using a racist, sexist or other types of stereotyping jokes to have a ""dig"" at someone (and therefore to harass them). If this difference is not clear or if someone is offended, the behavior should stop immediately"																																				
k)   Obscene phone calls																																				
l)   Displaying pornography in the workplace or otherwise																																				
m)  Insisting that workers wear revealing clothing																																				
n)  Inappropriate comments about one's dressing																																				
"o)   Inappropriate gifts (for example, lingerie)"																																				
p)  Discussion of one's partner's sexual inadequacies																																				
q)  Lewd and threatening letters																																				
"r)   ""Accidentally"" brushing sexual parts of the body"																																				
s)  Pressing or rubbing up against a victim																																				
t)   Sexual sneak attacks (such as grabbing private parts on the run)																																				
u)  Indecent exposure																																				
v)  Subtle or overt pressure for sexual favors																																				
w) Soliciting sexual services																																				
x)  Demanding sexual services																																				
"y)  Sexual or physical contact, such as slapping, kissing or touching."																																				
z)   Intrusive questions about sexual activity																																				
aa) Sexual assault (a crime under the Indian Penal Code)																																				
"bb) Repeated sexual invitations when the person invited has refused/ignored similar invitations cc) Coerced sexual intercourse (e.g., as a condition of employment or academic status)"																																				
Note: A single act or occurrence shall also be enough to be construed as harassment.																																				
"❍ Sexual Harassment at the Workplace-Additional information for reference - For example, if a co-worker accidentally"																																				
"brushes against you, it would not be considered sexual harassment. However, if that person repeatedly finds opportunities to brush against you, it is no longer accidental -- it is deliberate. Behavior like this, which may make you feel uncomfortable and adversely affect your work, is sexual harassment. Conduct that might be harmless or even enjoyable in a social situation can be upsetting at work. Sexual behavior that is repeated, unwanted and interferes with your job has crossed the line: it is not only inappropriate, it is illegal. Some behavior may be so extreme - such as sexual assault - that it constitutes sexual harassment even if the behavior occurs only once."																																				
❍ Prevention and Redressal of Harassment at HCL TechnologiesHCLTech is committed to providing an environment free																																				
"of any and all kinds of harassment including sexual harassment, gender based harassment, harassment related to special conditions like pregnancy, childbirth, harassment based on any kind of medical conditions, race, ethnicity, religious creed, color, national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, age, sexual orientation, etc. This policy applies to all persons engaged directly or indirectly with HCLTech and prohibits any kind of harassment of any employee of HCLTech or any person visiting or working with HCLTech including supervisors, vendors and clients. If the Company determines that harassment has occurred, appropriate remedial action shall be taken. Any employee determined by the Company to have caused any kind of harassment shall be dealt appropriate disciplinary action, up to, and including"																																				
"termination. The Company shall not retaliate against anyone for filing a complaint and shall not tolerate or permit retaliation by management, employees or co-workers"																																				
Workplace Sexual harassment should not be ignored under any circumstances because silence or the act of ignoring towards the harassing incident conduct may be interpreted as acceptance of such incident or conduct. In making our work atmosphere healthier and free from harassment. The Company has some defined set of guidelines defined for employee; employer to make a work environment free from Harassment																																				
❍ Employee Responsibility																																				
i. All employees are mandated to read and acquaint themselves with the company policy with respect to any instances of sexual harassment reported at the workplace. Pleading ignorance about the policy or the following consequences shall not stand a valid ground in any case whatsoever.																																				
ii. The detailed document on prevention of sexual harassment at work place is available on Policies Hub and with all HR																																				
"officers of the facility. The employees may address their doubts or concerns, if any to their local HR representative."																																				
"iii. Employees of HCLTech must conduct themselves so as to ensure a work environment that promotes, respects and"																																				
upholds the dignity of every individual at the workplace and does not become the cause of any physical and mental																																				
"harassment. This term and act of “harassment” includes but is not restricted to unwelcome behaviour whether through visual displays, verbal, non-verbal, physical or other conduct making a person submit to requests, favours, threats or demands that alter or threaten to alter the terms of employment and interfere with work conditions."																																				
iv. Employees must report every incident of perceived harassment that they are aware of through the official channels																																				
mentioned here.																																				
v. Employees are expected to cooperate with the company in investigations and in preventing and curtailing unlawful discrimination and harassment at the workplace.																																				
"vi. Any misbehaviour by the complainant/s or Respondent/s or Witnesses or any other employee, will be construed as a"																																				
misconduct under the COBEC policy and IC has the right to recommend disciplinary action against them.																																				
❍  Employer’s responsibility																																				
"i. Prevent and prohibit all and any acts of harassment, including sexual harassment, in order to ensure a safe and healthy work environment."																																				
ii. Redress and resolve grievances pertaining to sexual harassment.																																				
iii. Take the following proactive steps:																																				
a)   Display the penal consequences of the acts of sexual harassment at all conspicuous places.																																				
b)  Conduct regular workshops and employee awareness programs for gender sensitization.																																				
c)   Create forum for open dialogues for creating sensitization towards gender issues and also address various concerns and issues highlighted thereof.																																				
d)   Orientation programs to be conducted for the Internal Complaints Committee.																																				
e)   Conduct capacity building and skill building programs for the Members of the Internal Committee.																																				
f)   Monitor timely submission of the reports including Annual Report by the Internal Committee.																																				
g)   Timely and efficient enactment of the recommendations received from the Internal Complaints Committee.																																				
h)   To assist the aggrieved woman in filing an official complaint with the concerned authorities under the																																				
Indian Penal Code.																																				
"❍  Internal Committee (IC) - The company has constituted a committee for the redressal of all sexual harassment complaints,"																																				
known as the “Internal committee” (IC). IC is established at all administrative offices located at different places or divisional or sub-divisional level or regional level																																				
The ICC shall comprise of:																																				
"Karnataka: Bengaluru, Hubli"																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned locations are given below:"																																				
Bengaluru and Hubli																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        6 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 12 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No.    SAP ID    Employee Name                      Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC																																				
Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)                Gend																																				
1	40108718 Neeraja Desai								neeraja.d@hcl.com              ICM																		F									
2	40176180 Devadath Gowda								Devadath.Gowda@hcl.com ICM																		M									
3	40191419 Narahari											Narahari.Aithal@hcl.com										ICM					M									
4	40203722 Jossy Roshan Moras											Jossy@hcl.com										ICM					M									
5	40209133 Raghu KN											Raghu.KN@hcl.com										ICM					M									
6	51312757 Shanthi Shetty											Shanthi.Shetty@hcl.com										PO					F									
7	"51331662 ARCHANA GULABCHAND
GANDHI"											Archana.Advani@hcl.com										PO					F									
8	51332598 Rohit Ranjan Thakur											RohitTh@hcl.com										ICM					M									
9	51340557 ASHA PRAKASH											Asha.Prakash@hcl.com										PO					F									
10	51367631 POONAM SHYAM											Poonam.Shyam@hcl.com										ICM					F									
11	51751307 Rita Patel											patel.r@hcl.com										PO					F									
12	51867163 Rajasekaran Nagarajan											rajasekaran.nagar@hcl.com										ICM					M									
13	51870483 Jayeta Jithu											jayeta.jithu@hcl.com										ICM					F									
14	51946846 Thimmaiah											thimmaiah.kulla@hcl.com										ICM					M									
15	51961167 Mekhala Rao											mekhala.rao@hcl.com										ICM					F									
16	52031281 Shant Kumar											shantkumar-s@hcl.com										ICM					M									
17	52149398 Reshmi Jacob											reshmi.jacob@hcl.com										PO					F									
18	52182409 Barsha Mishra											barsha.mishra@hcl.com										PO					F									
19	External   Representative from SASHA    kanti@sashaindia.org India																					EM					E									
Chennai																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        14 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 16 nos External Members                          1 nos.																																				
Sl.																																				
No.   SAP ID    Employee Name                 Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)         Gend																																				
1       10102014 SUJATHA VENKATESAN   Sujathav@hcl.com                           PO                                                                 F																																				
"2       40102855 Srilekha N-ERS,HCLTech.   nsrilekha@hcl.com                           PO                                                                 F"																																				
3       40103861 RACHNA CHHABRA           rachna.chhabra@hcl.com                PO                                                                 F RAJESWARI																																				
RAMASESHAN                    rrajeswari@hcl.com                          PO                                                                 F																																				
Alice Soundarrajan (SEZ -																																				
Admin)                                  alices@hcl.com                                ICM                                                               F																																				
6       40138346 Lakshmikanth Srinivasan     lakshmikanths@hcl.com                  ICM                                                               M																																				
7       40162573 VIJAYA PARAMESWARAN Vijaya_Parameswaran@hcl.com     PO                                                                 F																																				
8       40178078 LATHA RADHAKRISHNAN latha.r@hcl.com                               PO                                                                 F																																				
9       40184391 Jayakumar Gopalakrishnan gjayakumar@hcl.com                       ICM                                                               M																																				
10     40192847 SHINI PIOUS                       Shini.pious@hcl.com                        ICM                                                               F																																				
11     40215659 Pandurangan Ramaguru      P.Ramaguru@hcl.com                     ICM                                                               M																																				
12     51303266 Jeny Susan John                 JenyJ@hcl.com                                PO                                                                 F																																				
13     51508109 Anusha B                             Anusha.Balasubramanian@hcl.com ICM                                                               F																																				
14     51528583 Dhanalakshmi Thangaraj     dhanalakshmi.t@hcl.com                 PO                                                                 F																																				
15     51535259 Abdul Abbas                        AbdulAbbas.Shajahan@hcl.com      ICM                                                               M																																				
16     51539709 Kaushik V                             kaushik.viswanathan@hcl.com        ICM                                                               M																																				
17     51555660 Padmajaya																																				
Bhagavathiammal																																				
padmajaya.b@hcl.com                     PO                                                                 F																																				
18     51559813 Nirmal Kumar V                    nirmalkumar.v@hcl.com                   ICM                                                               M																																				
19     51588252 Dinesh Dharmalingam        Dinesh.Dharmalingam@hcl.com      ICM                                                               M																																				
20     51608306 Anita Immanuel                    Anita.imm@hcl.com                         PO                                                                 F																																				
21     51908237 Sundar Raman S                 sundarraman_s@hcl.com                ICM                                                               M																																				
22     51961279 Srividhya Mahesh                srividhya.mahesh@hcl.com             PO                                                                 F																																				
23     52008152 Sabrina Rajiv                        sabrina.rajiv@hcl.com                      PO                                                                 F																																				
24     52027209 Sangeetha																																				
Sankaranarayanan																																				
sangeetha.sanka@hcl.com              ICM                                                               F																																				
25     52055816 Usha Dayanandan              usha.dayanandan@hcl.com             ICM                                                               F																																				
26     52098824 Prasan Ravi                         prasan_ravi@hcl.com                      ICM                                                               M																																				
27     52125647 Shinthiya .                           shinthiya.s@hcl.com                        ICM                                                               F																																				
28     52149398 Reshmi Jacob                      reshmi.jacob@hcl.com                     PO                                                                 F																																				
31     40100676 Jayasree Bandi                    jayasrib@hcl.com                             ICM                                                               F																																				
29     52182409 Barsha Mishra                      barsha.mishra@hcl.com                  PO                                                                 F																																				
30     External   Representative from																																				
SASHA India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org                       EM                                                                F																																				
Coimbatore																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        4 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 5 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No   SAP ID    Employee Name                Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC Member(ICM)/External Member(EM) Gend																																				
1      51478555 Ramya S                             RSUBRAMANIAN@STATESTREET.COM ICM                                                       F																																				
2      51584307 Rajasekaran K N                RNAGARAJAN@STATESTREET.COM    ICM                                                       M																																				
3      51950412 Rajalakshmi Shankar         rajalakshmi.shankar@hcl.com                    PO                                                         F																																				
4      52081317 Pratima Gomes                  pratima.gomes@hcl.com                            PO                                                         F																																				
5      52097372 Nithila P                              nithila.p@hcl.com                                       ICM                                                       F																																				
6      52125585 Lakshmi Prabha G              lakshmiprabha.g@hcl.com                         ICM                                                       F																																				
7      52149398 Reshmi Jacob                     reshmi.jacob@hcl.com                               PO                                                         F																																				
8      52182409 Barsha Mishra                    barsha.mishra@hcl.com                             PO                                                         F																																				
9      External   Representative from																																				
SASHA India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org                                 EM                                                         F																																				
Hyderabad																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 10 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)                                                             Gend																																				
1	40100234 Dakshinamurthy Chunduri												dakshin@hcl.com						ICM						M											
2	40192847 SHINI PIOUS												Shini.pious@hcl.com						ICM						F											
4	51434217 RAVISHANKAR SILUMULA												ravishankar_s@hcl.com						ICM						M											
5	51755436 Jyothi Rosarina												jyothi.rosarina@hcl.com						PO						F											
6	51755613 Ajo John												Ajo.John@hcl.com						ICM						M											
7	51755622 I. John David												john.david@hcl.com						ICM						M											
8	51755623 S.M.Sikander Mehdi												Sikander.mehdi@hcl.com						ICM						M											
9	51755678 Satya Karri												satya.karri@hcl.com						ICM						F											
10	51794204 Aritra Thakur												aritrat@hcl.com						ICM						M											
11	51927590 Tousif H. (HR)												Tousif.h@hcl.com						ICM						M											
12	51961167 Mekhala Rao												mekhala.rao@hcl.com						ICM						F											
13	52149398 Reshmi Jacob												reshmi.jacob@hcl.com						PO						F											
"14
15"	"52182409 Barsha Mishra
External   Representative from SASHA India"												"barsha.mishra@hcl.com
kanti@sashaindia.org"						"PO
EM"						"F
F"											
Kolkata																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 4 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                   Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer (PO)/IC Member																																				
(ICM)/External Member(EM)                                   Gend																																				
1       40192847 SHINI PIOUS                         Shini.pious@hcl.com          ICM                                                                           F																																				
SAYANTANI																																				
CHAKRABORTY                    Sayantani.C@hcl.com        ICM                                                                           F																																				
3       51498576 Angan Mukherjee                   angan.m@hcl.com              ICM                                                                           M																																				
4       51578319 Madhuchhanda Pandit           madhuchhanda.p@hcl.com PO                                                                            F																																				
5       51961167 Mekhala Rao                          mekhala.rao@hcl.com        ICM                                                                           F																																				
6       52149398 Reshmi Jacob                        reshmi.jacob@hcl.com       PO                                                                            F																																				
7       52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com     PO                                                                            F																																				
8       External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org         EM                                                                            F																																				
Lucknow																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 8 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer (PO)/IC Member (ICM)/External Member(EM)                                                               Gend																																				
1	40100938 Rishi Kumar										rishik@hcl.com							ICM							M											
2	40171368 Dipti Jena										diptij@hcl.com							ICM							F											
3	51356032 Vivek Sateeja										Vivek.Sateeja@hcl.com							ICM							M											
4	51621022 Angeline Dianahessing										angeline.d@hcl.com							PO							F											
5	51737567 Raina Khandelwal  										raina.k@hcl.com							ICM							F											
6	51855834 Vibhas Nigam										vibhas.nigam@hcl.com							ICM							M											
7	51859995 Neha Dixit  										neha.dixit@hcl.com							ICM							F											
8	51984322 Varsha Prasad  										varsha.prasad@hcl.com							ICM							F											
9	52080377 Vishi Sukhwani  										vishi.sukhwani@hcl.com							ICM							F											
10	52149398 Reshmi Jacob										reshmi.jacob@hcl.com							PO							F											
11	52182409 Barsha Mishra										barsha.mishra@hcl.com							PO							F											
12     External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org     EM                                                                               F																																				
Madurai																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        4 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 6 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer (PO)/IC Member (ICM)/External Member(EM)                                                             Gend																																				
1       12101192 Thirumurugan Subbaraj          sthirumurugan@hcl.com   ICM                                                                            M																																				
2       40100217 Subbaraman B                        subbaramanb@hcl.com    ICM                                                                            M																																				
3       40113721 Prakash Raman                      Prakash.Raman@hcl.com ICM                                                                            M																																				
4       40192847 SHINI PIOUS                          Shini.pious@hcl.com        PO                                                                              F																																				
6       51436685 SASIKALA SETHU                 sasikala.s@hcl.com          PO                                                                              F																																				
7       51540067 Ivy Thomas                             thomasi@hcl.com             ICM                                                                            F																																				
8       51731863 Divya Mrinal                            mrinald@hcl.com              ICM                                                                            F																																				
9       52149398 Reshmi Jacob                         reshmi.jacob@hcl.com     PO                                                                              F																																				
10     52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com   PO                                                                              F																																				
11     External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org       EM                                                                             F																																				
Mumbai																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 5 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer (PO)/IC Member (ICM)/External Member (EM)                                                             Gend																																				
1       40192847 SHINI PIOUS                          Shini.pious@hcl.com        ICM                                                                             F																																				
2       51557628 Sonali Narayan Bharne          sonalinarayan.b@hcl.com ICM                                                                             F																																				
3       51651044 Yamini Desai                          Yamini.Desai@hcl.com    ICM                                                                             F																																				
4       51669868 Baburaj Iyer                            Baburaj.Iyer@hcl.com      ICM                                                                             M																																				
5       51912379 Swarnalatha Mouli                  swarnalatha.s@hcl.com   PO                                                                              F																																				
6       51961167 Mekhala Rao                          mekhala.rao@hcl.com      ICM                                                                             F																																				
7       52149398 Reshmi Jacob                         reshmi.jacob@hcl.com     PO                                                                              F																																				
8       52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com   PO                                                                              F																																				
9       External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org       EM                                                                              F																																				
Nagpur																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 3 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer (PO)/IC Member (ICM)/External Member(EM)                                                                Gend																																				
1	40114480 Shailesh Kamlakar Awale											shailesha@hcl.com        ICM													M											
2	40192847 SHINI PIOUS											Shini.pious@hcl.com     ICM													F											
3	51912379 Swarnalatha Mouli											swarnalatha.s@hcl.com PO													F											
4	51961167 Mekhala Rao											mekhala.rao@hcl.com   ICM													F											
5	52149398 Reshmi Jacob											reshmi.jacob@hcl.com  PO													F											
6	52182409 Barsha Mishra											barsha.mishra@hcl.com PO													F											
7       External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org    EM                                                                                F																																				
NCR  - Which includes Noida/ Delhi / Gurgaon																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned locations are given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        14 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 9 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No.    SAP ID    Employee Name                    Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC																																				
Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)                   Gend																																				
1		40100020 Lovely Bibra									lovelyb@hcl.com										PO					F										
2		40100257 SEEMA GOEL									seemam@hcl.com										PO					F										
3		40101332 Mona Jain									monaj@hcl.com										PO					F										
4		40105182 Anita Sabhnani Mehra									anitas@hcl.com										PO					F										
5		40107342 Navneet Kaur									kaur.navneet@hcl.com										PO					F										
6		40109162 Vishal Sharma									vishal.sharma@hcl.com										ICM					M										
7		40114932 DEEPIKA GOYAL									DeepikaG@hcl.com										PO					F										
8		40138509 Ankita Sood									ansood@hcl.com										ICM					F										
9		40156239 Rati Mehrotra									RatiMehrotra@hcl.com										PO					F										
10		40157509 Aparna Arya									aparnaa@hcl.com										PO					F										
11		40177549 SHILPA SOOD									shilpa.sood@hcl.com										ICM					F										
12		40182861 GARGI GHOSH									GargiG@hcl.com										ICM					F										
13		40216692 Indu Bhushan Verma									InduV@hcl.com										PO					F										
15		51356032 Vivek Sateeja									Vivek.Sateeja@hcl.com										ICM					M										
16		51407454 Sujeet Lahiri									sujeetlahiri@hcl.com										ICM					M										
17		51439099 Mandavi Sharma									mandavi.s@hcl.com										ICM					F										
19		51576673 Monika Gupta									Monika.Gupta@hcl.com										PO					F										
20		51606974 Bhavna Kapur									bhavna.k@hcl.com										PO					F										
23		51842209 Anandita Chauhan									anandita.chauhan@hcl.com										PO					F										
24		51863967 Anindita Paul									anindita.paul@hcl.com										ICM					F										
25		52121930 Aditi Arora									aditi_arora@hcl.com										ICM					F										
26		52149398 Reshmi Jacob									reshmi.jacob@hcl.com										PO					F										
"27
28"		"52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com
External   Representative from SASHA  kanti@sashaindia.org India"																			"PO
EM"					"F
F"										
PUNE																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        3 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 6 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                   Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC																																				
Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)               Gend																																				
1	40192847 SHINI PIOUS									Shini.pious@hcl.com												ICM					F									
2	51557628 Sonali Narayan Bharne									sonalinarayan.b@hcl.com												ICM					F									
3	51669940 Samved Galegaonkar									Samved.Galegaonkar@hcl.com												ICM					M									
4	51854012 Alisha Nayak									alishan@hcl.com												ICM					F									
5	51912379 Swarnalatha Mouli									swarnalatha.s@hcl.com												PO					F									
6	51961167 Mekhala Rao									mekhala.rao@hcl.com												ICM					F									
7	52134661 Sandeep Sharma									sandeep.shar@hcl.com												ICM					M									
8	52149398 Reshmi Jacob						reshmi.jacob@hcl.com													PO							F									
9	52182409 Barsha Mishra						barsha.mishra@hcl.com													PO							F									
10	External   Representative from SASHA kanti@sashaindia.org India																			EM							F									
Vijayawada																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        4 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 5 nos External Members                          1 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                   Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC																																				
Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)                  Gend																																				
1       40117401 Jayashree Ramachandran     jayashreer@hcl.com              PO                                                                         F																																				
2       40192847 SHINI PIOUS                         Shini.pious@hcl.com             PO                                                                          F																																				
3       51434366 Suneet Chowdhury                 Suneet.Chowdhury@hcl.com ICM                                                                        F																																				
4       51961167 Mekhala Rao                          mekhala.rao@hcl.com           ICM                                                                        F																																				
5       51978687 Bharathi Yedduri                    bharathi.yedduri@hcl.com     ICM                                                                        F																																				
6       52048515 Bhavana Vasadi                    bhavana.vasadi@hcl.com     ICM                                                                        F																																				
7       52064207 Rajesh Sunkara                      rajesh.sunkara@hcl.com       ICM                                                                        M																																				
8       52149398 Reshmi Jacob                        reshmi.jacob@hcl.com          PO                                                                          F																																				
9       52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com        PO                                                                         F																																				
10     External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org            EM                                                                         F																																				
Cochin																																				
"List of Presiding Officers, Internal Committee and External members for the above mentioned location is given below:"																																				
Total No of Presiding Officers        03 nos																																				
Total Internal Committee Members 03 nos External Members                          01 nos																																				
Sl.																																				
No    SAP ID    Employee Name                   Email ID																																				
Presiding Officer(PO)/IC																																				
Member(ICM)/External Member(EM)                  Gend																																				
1       40192847 SHINI PIOUS                         Shini.pious@hcl.com             PO                                                                         F																																				
3       51961167 Mekhala Rao                          mekhala.rao@hcl.com           ICM                                                                        F																																				
4       52075198 Vinoy Koramvalyath               vinoy.koramvalyath@hcl.com ICM                                                                        M																																				
5       52076896 Sushi Unnikrishnan                sasi.unnik@hcl.com               ICM                                                                        F																																				
6       52149398 Reshmi Jacob                        reshmi.jacob@hcl.com          PO                                                                         F																																				
7       52182409 Barsha Mishra                        barsha.mishra@hcl.com        PO                                                                         F																																				
8       External   Representative from SASHA																																				
India																																				
kanti@sashaindia.org            EM                                                                         F																																				
On receipt of the complaint the IC shall proceed to commence enquiry as per service rules/rules in that regard.																																				
"In cases where there is a prima facie case made out, the IC will forward the complaint to police within 7 days for registering a criminal case under 509 IPC."																																				
"The IC shall have the same powers as vested to Civil Court under the CPC w.r.t. summoning & enforcing attendance, examining on oath, requiring discovery & production of documents and such other matters."																																				
The enquiry proceedings shall be detailed in writing & duly signed. The committee shall not be recording the enquiry proceedings																																				
in audio / video format ordinarily & attendees of the enquiry proceedings (including complainant and witnesses) are also expected																																				
not to record the same. Devices capable of recording shall be prohibited at the venue of enquiry and may be allowed at the discretion of the IC.																																				
"❍ What is expected from every employee? – If you are a victim or witness to any form of Sexual harassment, you must submit your grievance in the Global Ethics Helpline (Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline). Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to use the Smart Service Desk for SECURE complaints/write to secure@hcl.com and/or report harassment to a supervisor or HR representative or members of the IC within 3(three) months from its occurrence. Complaints filed after a period of three months shall not be entertained except for in extraordinary circumstances. The determination of the fact that extraordinary circumstances exist shall be made on case to case basis. Under no circumstances, the extended time limit shall exceed three months."																																				
"a)    The complaint has to be filed with the Committee in written, along with supporting documents / substantiations and the"																																				
details of the witnesses.																																				
"b) Ordinarily, on receipt of the complaint, the Committee shall send to the respondent within a period of seven working days a copy of the complaint filed by the complainant. The respondent shall file his reply to the complaint along with his list of documents/ substantiations and the Details of the witnesses, within the stipulated time period."																																				
❍ Conciliation																																				
"The aggrieved woman may also choose to resort to Conciliation. On the request made by the aggrieved woman, before initiating the inquiry, the IC will take steps to settle the matter through conciliation."																																				
No monetary settlement shall be made as a basis of conciliation.																																				
IC shall record the settlement and forward the conciliation report to the employer to take action. IC will provide copies of the settlement to the aggrieved woman and respondent and no further inquiry shall be conducted. The settlement terms will need to be duly implemented or else enquiry will need to be initiated.																																				
1. Procedure for dealing with complaints																																				
In case no settlement is arrived at between parties or the terms of settlement have not been complied with by the respondent or basis the severity of the complaint the Committee shall inquire into the complaint in accordance with the service rules and Principles of Natural Justice.																																				
a)    The parties shall be given reasonable opportunity of being heard.																																				
"b) The Committee shall have the right to terminate the inquiry proceedings or to give an ex-parte decision on the complaint (after giving 15 days advance notice), if the complainant or respondent fails, without sufficient cause, to present herself or himself for three consecutive hearings convened by the Chairperson."																																				
"c) Parties shall not be allowed to bring in any legal practitioner to represent them in their case at any stage of the proceedings before the Committee. In conducting the inquiry, a minimum of three Members of the Committee including the Presiding Officer shall be present."																																				
d) The parties shall be given reasonable opportunity of being heard and a copy of the findings by the IC shall be made available to them.																																				
"e) The inquiry would ordinarily be concluded within a maximum of 90 days of the receipt of the formal written complaint by the IC. Inadvertently in case the time limit of 90 days is exceeded, the same will be clearly explained in the final report submitted by the IC."																																				
2. Actions during pendency of Enquiry -																																				
"Notwithstanding the company's internal procedure, every employee retains the right to file a complaint of unlawful harassment under the law of the land with relevant authorities."																																				
"In relevant cases, in accordance with the mandate of the law of the land, the company retains the right and responsibility to hand over the investigation or employee to relevant state authorities."																																				
"During the pendency of an Inquiry, IC may recommend to"																																				
i. Transfer the aggrieved woman or the respondent to any other workplace; or																																				
ii. Grant leave to the aggrieved woman up to a period of 3 months; Leave granted shall be in addition to the leave otherwise entitled; or																																				
iii. Grant such other relief to the aggrieved woman as may be prescribed.																																				
"Interim relief is not a right that can be demanded by the complainant. The complainant must make a written request at the time of filing or during the inquiry stage to the Internal Committee. The IC, based on its decision, will grant or deny such relief. The IC after due consideration of the case situation or the environment at work place, can independently take any such decision to grant interim relief."																																				
"The Complainant at any stage of the enquiry may exercise her right to withdraw the complaint by showcasing reasonable cause. However, In view of the company’s stance of zero tolerance, In certain cases the company may exercise its rights to pursue a complaint despite being withdrawn by the complainant."																																				
3. On conclusion of enquiry -																																				
a) IC will provide a report of its findings within 10 days from the date of completion of inquiry and such report may be made available to the concerned parties.																																				
"b) The parties may submit within the stipulated time their representation if any on the findings of the committee. After considering the representation, the IC shall submit the findings to the employer / HR"																																				
"c) In the cases where the allegations are proved, the Committee shall recommend to the employer to take any following actions: including a written apology, warning, reprimand or censure, withholding of promotion, withholding of pay rise or increments, recommending not to be rehired, to be separated from the organisation, terminating the perpetrator from service or undergoing a counselling session, sensitisation on Secure policy and Gender Sensitisation or carrying out community service."																																				
d)    The employer is required to act upon the recommendation within 60 days of its receipt of report sent by the IC.																																				
4. False Accusation																																				
"Where the ICC arrives at the conclusion that the allegation against the respondent is malicious or the aggrieved woman or any other person making the complaint has made the complaint knowing it to be false or the aggrieved woman or any other person making the complaint has produced any forged or misleading document, it may recommend to the employer to take suitable action viz. including a written apology, warning, reprimand or censure, withholding of promotion, withholding of pay rise or increments, recommending not to be rehired, to be separated from the organisation, terminating the perpetrator from service or undergoing a counselling session, sensitisation on Secure policy and Gender Sensitisation or carrying out community service."																																				
"This does not, however, include complaints which are difficult to prove or have been made in good faith."																																				
❍ Right to appeal																																				
"Any person aggrieved from the recommendations made may prefer an appeal to the court or tribunal, within the stipulated period in accordance with the manner as may be prescribed, without prejudice to provisions contained in any other law for the time being in force."																																				
❍ Confidentiality																																				
"All complaints of Harassment, statements of parties and subsequent investigations and reports, are considered highly confidential and would not be disclosed, except to the extent required by law. While handling any complaint under this policy shall attempt to the greatest degree possible to protect the confidentiality of the persons involved, the investigations, related records and reports. Any attempts to influence or pressurize persons connected with the Inquiry, whether as participants, or witnesses, or even members of the Inquiry committee, shall considered as a misconduct under the disciplinary policy of the company."																																				
❍ Reference of prevailing Laws																																				
"This policy is meant to confirm to The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Rules 2013: An act to provide protection against sexual harassment of women at workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto."																																				
"""Sexual harassment includes any one or more of the following unwelcome acts or behaviour (whether directly or by implication) as: (a) physical contact and advances; (b) a demand or request for sexual favours; (c) sexually-coloured remarks; (d) showing pornography; (e) any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature."																																				
"For more clarity reference is being made to the Supreme Court Judgment in the Vishakha case: ""Where any of these acts is"																																				
committed in circumstances where under the victim of such conduct has a reasonable apprehension that in relation to the																																				
"victim's employment or work whether she is drawing salary, or honorarium or voluntary, whether in government, public or"																																				
private enterprise such conduct can be humiliating and may constitute a health and safety problem.																																				
"It is discriminatory for instance when the woman has reasonable grounds to believe that her objection would disadvantage her in connection with her employment or work including recruiting or promotion or when it creates a hostile work environment. Adverse consequences might be visited if the victim does not consent to the conduct in question or raises any objection thereto."""																																				
"If this policy contravenes any of the sections / laws applicable then The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Rules 2013 will supersede this policy."																																				
FAQs:																																				
Is an employer liable if an employee is harassed?																																				
"If an employer is aware of a hostile environment, and has not taken any appropriate action to correct the problem, then the employer may well be held liable for the harassment. However, whether it was supervisors, co-workers, or customers who created the hostile environment, if the employer is not made aware of the situation, the employer should not be held responsible for hostile environment harassment."																																				
What are my responsibilities as an employee?																																				
"All employees including Directors, Officers and consultants are required to comply with the rules of the Company prohibiting sexual harassment. More specifically you are required to refrain from sexually oriented behavior while interacting with other employees. It may be noted that the acts teasing, sporadic abusive utterances, occasional sexually colored jokes, could upset a person, even though it may not have been intentionally directed at him/her, and may not form a sexual harassment claim. If the censurable behavior you are engaging in, is upsetting someone, stop it immediately and refrain from future indulgences in such behavior. Additionally you are required to report all incidents of sexually oriented behavior that you are aware of, to the appropriate persons."																																				
"If an employer wants an employee to dress in what is considered a ""sexy"" manner, is that sexual harassment?"																																				
It could be. Employers may not discriminate against employees on the basis of sex. Asking you to dress in a provocative manner may involve both quid pro quo																																				
"harassment and be part of creating a hostile environment. No employee should be required to be put in a position that encourages people (whether other employees or visitors, vendors, customers, or salespeople) to make unwelcome sexual advances."																																				
What if there was a voluntary sexual relationship?																																				
"The end of a voluntary sexual relationship may give rise to a situation alleging sexual relationship. 1) A party may claim that the relationship was the result of quid pro quo harassment, and was not the result of voluntary conduct or mutual attraction 2) Should one party try to continue the relationship, it is possible to have the other claim that the pursuing party is engaged in hostile environment sexual harassment 3) It is also possible that there may be a spiteful action in the form of a hostile environment sexual harassment by either party as a consequence of the fallout between the parties In all these circumstances, it becomes a matter of proof, considering the facts and circumstances in determining whether there has been an incidence of sexual harassment"																																				
Can one incident constitute sexual harassment?																																				
"In ""quid pro quo"" cases, a single sexual advance may constitute harassment if it is linked to the granting or denial of a tangible employment action, such as discharge, demotion or undesirable reassignment or other changes in employment or employment benefits. In ""hostile environment"" cases, generally, a single incident does not create a ""hostile environment."" A hostile environment claim usually requires a showing of a pattern of offensive conduct; the more extreme the conduct, the less the need to show a repetitive series of incidents."																																				
Will the Rules apply to me if I am an employee who is working outside my home country?																																				
Yes. You will be subject to the SECURE policy																																				
To whom should I complain if I am in a customer site?																																				
You can approach the Contact Officer designated for your country or write to secure@hcl.com																																				
Can my employer retaliate against me for filing a complaint?																																				
"It is unlawful for an employer to retaliate against someone who files a charge of discrimination, participates in an investigation, or opposes discriminatory practices."																																				
What are the local laws governing Sexual harassment? When I am outside my home country on a short official trip will these laws be applicable?																																				
Yes.																																				
HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED																																				
"Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial personnel and"																																				
other employees																																				
"Effective Date         :  July 29 - 31, 2014"																																				
"Amended Date          :  January 17-18, 2016"																																				
(I)     Scope of the Policy																																				
"The remuneration policy (“Policy”) applies to the Directors, Key Managerial personnel"																																				
and other employees of HCL Technologies Limited. (“Company”) and its subsidiaries.																																				
(II)    Background																																				
"A  transparent,   fair  and  reasonable  process  for  determining  the  appropriate"																																				
remuneration at all career levels and roles as prevalent in the Company is required to ensure that the Shareholders remain informed and confident in the management of the Company.																																				
(III)  Objective																																				
The objectives of this policy are:																																				
a)  To create a transparent system of determining the appropriate level of remuneration																																				
throughout all career levels and roles of the Company																																				
"b) Motivate the directors, Key Managerial personnel and other employees, to perform to their maximum potential"																																				
"c) To reward performance and meritocracy, based on review of achievements on a regular basis and is in consonance and benchmarked with the existing industry practices."																																				
d)  Allow the Company to compete in each relevant employment market;																																				
e)  Provide consistency in remuneration and benefits throughout the Company																																				
f) Align the performance of the business with the performance of key individuals and teams within the Company.																																				
(IV)  Remuneration Policy for Directors																																				
(a)   Executive Directors																																				
The remuneration of the Executive Directors will be recommended by the Nomination																																				
and Remuneration Committee (Committee) to the Board of Directors (Board) and after approval by the Board the same will be put up for the shareholder’s approval.																																				
(b)   Non-Executive Directors:																																				
Non-Executive Directors will be paid commission as approved by the Board within the																																				
"limits approved by the shareholders of the Company. The amount of such commission, taken together for all Non-Executive Directors, will not exceed 1% of the net profits of the Company in a financial year calculated as per the requirements of Section 198 of the Companies Act 2013 (Act). The said commission shall be decided each year by the Board of Directors and distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors based on"																																				
"their evaluation, and contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings, as well"																																				
as the time spent on operational matters other than at meetings.																																				
"The Company shall reimburse the travelling, hotel and other out-of-pocket expenses"																																				
incurred by the Directors for attending the meetings and for other work on behalf of the Company.																																				
(V)   Remuneration Policy for Key Managerial Personnel and other employees																																				
The  Company’s  remuneration  policy  of  Key  Managerial  Personnel  (other  than																																				
"Executive Directors covered above) and other employees is driven by their success and performance of the Company. Through its compensation programme, the Company endeavours to attract, retain, develop and motivate a high performance workforce. The Company follows a compensation mix of fixed pay, performance based variable pay, benefits and perquisites and long term cash incentive plans, equity based reward plans. Individual performance pay is determined by business performance and the performance of the individuals measured through periodic appraisal process. The Company will ensure that level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate all employees to contribute to their potential and in turn run the company successfully."																																				
The Company may consider on case to case basis for granting the personal loan to																																				
the employees on a specific request by the employees.																																				
(VI)  Disclosure																																				
"The policy shall be disclosed in the Board Report, Annual Report, website and such other"																																				
"places as may be required by the Act and rules framed thereunder, Equity Listing Agreement entered into with the stock exchanges (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof) and such other laws for the time being in force."																																				
(VII) Implementation																																				
This Policy has been approved and adopted by the Board of the Company after the																																				
recommendation of the Committee of the Company. Any revisions to the Policy will be submitted to the Board for consideration and approval upon recommendation by the Committee.																																				
HCL TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED																																				
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION POLICY																																				
"Effective Date                   :                    October 17, 2014"																																				
"Modified on                      :                    April 14, 2022"																																				
I.    INTRODUCTION																																				
"HCL Technologies Limited (“Company” / “HCL”) recognizes that Related Party Transactions (as defined below) can present potential or actual conflicts of interest and to protect against any such eventuality and to ensure that such transactions are consistent with the Company’s and its shareholders’ best interests, This policy regarding the review and approval of Related Party Transactions (“Policy”) has been recommended by the Audit Committee and adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors (as defined below) in order to set forth the procedures under which certain transactions with Related Parties (as defined below) will be approved."																																				
II.      DEFINITIONS																																				
"For the purposes of this Policy, the following definitions apply:"																																				
"a)  “Act” means the Companies Act, 2013, for the time being in force and as amended from"																																				
time to time.																																				
b)  “Arm’s length transaction” means a transaction between two related parties that is																																				
"conducted as if they were unrelated, so that there is no conflict of interest."																																				
c)  “Audit Committee” means the Audit Committee constituted by the Board of Directors of																																				
the Company in accordance with applicable law.																																				
d)  “Board/Board of Directors” means the board of directors of HCL.																																				
e)  “Key Managerial Personnel” mean key managerial personnel as defined under Section																																				
"2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013."																																				
f)   “Material Related Party Transaction” means transaction defined as Material Related																																				
"Party  Transaction  under  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements), Regulation, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”)."																																				
ff)   “Material Modification(s) to Related Party Transaction” means  any modification(s)																																				
"to the Related Party Transaction, approved by the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors or the Shareholders, that has an adverse financial impact on the Company of 10% or more of the originally approved transaction."																																				
g)  “Ordinary Course of Business” - The transactions shall be in the ordinary course of																																				
business if - (a) If the transaction is covered in the main objects or objects in furtherance of the main objects or (b) If the transaction is usual as per industry practice or (c) If the transaction is happening frequently over a period of time and is for the business purpose of the Company.																																				
h)  “Policy” means this Related Party Transaction Policy.																																				
"i)   “Related Party” means a related party as defined under the Companies Act, 2013,"																																				
rules made thereunder and the SEBI Listing Regulations .																																				
j)   “Related  Party  Transaction”  means  a  transaction  envisaged  as  a  related  party																																				
"transaction  defined  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  under  the  SEBI  Listing Regulations."																																				
"k)  “Relative”, means with reference to any person, anyone who is related to another, if—"																																				
1.   they are members of a Hindu Undivided Family;																																				
2.   they are husband and wife; or																																				
"3.   A person shall be deemed to be the relative of another, if he or she is related to another in the following manner, namely: -"																																				
i.    Father including step-father;																																				
ii.    Mother including step-mother;																																				
iii.    Son including step-son;																																				
iv.    Son’s wife;																																				
v.    Daughter;																																				
vi.    Daughter’s husband;																																				
vii.    Brother including step-brother;																																				
viii.    Sister including step-sister.																																				
l)   “Rules” means Rules made by the Central Government pursuant to the provisions of the																																				
"Companies Act, 2013, for the time in force and as amended from time to time."																																				
All other words and expressions used but not defined in herein but defined in the Act and the																																				
"Rules and the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time shall have the same meaning as respectively assigned to them in such Act or rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be."																																				
III.      PROCESS  AND  PROCEDURE  FOR  DEALING  WITH  RELATED  PARTY																																				
TRANSACTIONS																																				
A. Approval of Audit Committee																																				
     Prior approval of the Audit Committee shall be taken for all related party transactions																																				
"and   subsequent   modifications   including   material   modifications,   as   per   the requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations."																																				
     The  Audit  Committee  may  grant  omnibus  approval  for  certain  Related  Party																																				
Transactions  subject to the compliance  of  conditions  contained in  SEBI  Listing Regulations and / or under the Act read with the Rules.																																				
"     While granting the omnibus approval, the Committee may prescribe the maximum"																																				
"mark-up to be given to the related parties in transactions involving purchase of goods and services and the minimum mark up to be charged from the related parties involving the sale of goods and services. The Committee may specify the maximum amount for each transaction and for a 12-month period. Where it is not possible to define the nature of the transaction, the Committee may grant approval to the"																																				
management to enter into transactions with related parties up to a certain defined																																				
monetary limit together with the validity period for such approval.																																				
"The Audit Committee shall review with the management, the annual financial statements"																																				
"and auditors‟ report thereon before submission to the Board for approval, with particular reference to disclosure of any Related Party Transactions or subsequent modification of the same."																																				
B. Approval of the Board of Directors																																				
Prior approval of the Board of Directors shall be taken for entering into Related Party																																				
"Transactions or modifications of the same which are not in the ordinary course of business or not on an arm’s length basis or Material Related Party Transaction(s) or its subsequent material modifications, as per the requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. Where any director is interested in any contract or arrangement with a Related Party, such director shall not participate in the meeting during discussions on the subject matter of the resolution relating to such contract or arrangement"																																				
C. Approval of Shareholders																																				
Prior  approval  of  the  shareholders  shall  be  taken  for  entering  into  Related  Party																																				
"Transactions and/or subsequent material modifications, as per the requirements and limits of the Act and/or the SEBI Listing Regulations. The voting on resolutions pertaining to such transactions shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, both read with the respective circulars/clarifications or notifications issued in this regard by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the SEBI."																																				
"If permitted by the Act read with the Rules and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the aforesaid"																																				
"shareholders‟ approval shall not be required for related party transactions and/or subsequent l modifications including material modifications entered into between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary and/or also between two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, whose accounts are consolidated with the Company and placed before the shareholders at the general meeting for approval."																																				
IV.      DISCLOSURES																																				
The Company shall disclose the particulars of contracts or arrangements entered into with the Related Parties in such form and manner as may be required under the provisions of the Act and the Rules and the SEBI Listing Regulations.																																				
The Company shall disclose this Policy on its website and also a web link thereto shall																																				
be provided in its annual report. The Policy shall also be communicated to all operational employees and other concerned persons of the Company.																																				
V.    LIMITATION AND AMENDMENT																																				
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Policy and of the Act or SEBI																																				
"Listing Regulations or any other statutory enactments, rules, the provisions of such Act or SEBI Listing Regulations or statutory enactments, rules shall prevail over this Policy. Any subsequent amendment / modification in the SEBI Listing Regulations, Act and/or applicable laws in this regard shall automatically apply to this Policy."																																				
Annexure – A																																				
"MODEL  TRIPARTITE  AGREEMENT  BETWEEN  THE  ISSUER,  EXISTING  SHARE"																																				
TRANSFER AGENT AND NEW SHARE TRANSFER AGENT																																				
"This Tripartite Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the ""Agreement"") is entered into on"																																				
this   ________  d a y  o f   _________  20         at                                between																																				
"                                                                                                          (name of the Issuer), a"																																				
"Company incorporated and registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or under any previous company law and having its Registered Office at"																																				
                                                                                                                                    (address)																																				
"(hereinafter referred to as the ""Issuer""), which expression shall, unless repugnant to the"																																				
"context or meaning thereof, be deemed to mean and include its executors, administrators, legal representatives and successors in title, as the case may be, of the First Part;"																																				
And																																				
                                                                                                        (name of the Existing STA)																																				
(Securities and Exchange Board of India registered share transfer agent) and having its																																				
Registered office at ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------																																				
"(hereinafter referred to as the ""Existing STA""), which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, be deemed to mean and include its executors, administrators, legal representatives and successors in title, as the case may be, of the"																																				
Second Part;																																				
And																																				
                                                                                                           (name of the New STA)																																				
(Securities and Exchange Board of India registered share transfer agent) and having its																																				
Registered  office  at  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------																																				
"(hereinafter referred to as the ""New STA""), which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, be deemed to mean and include its executors, administrators, legal representatives and successors in title, as the case may be, of the"																																				
Third Part;																																				
WHEREAS																																				
1. The Issuer is listed on   _______________ and                                       (name																																				
Page 1 of 7																																				
of the stock exchange/s) and has number of shareholders and has to																																				
"render services relating to transfer, transmission etc, in accordance with its Article of Association."																																				
2. The Issuer had an agreement dated  ___________ with the Existing STA to																																				
render services to its shareholders. The Issuer vide its letter dated                        																																				
has given notice to the Existing STA to discontinue its services and has appointed																																				
New STA w.e.f.  _________________  as per the Board Resolution dated																																				
3.  The New STA is a Securities and Exchange Board of India registered share																																				
transfer agent having registration no:  ________________ and the Issuer has approached the New STA to act as its share transfer agent and the New STA has accepted the assignment.																																				
4.  In terms of regulation 9A (1) (b) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrar																																				
"to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent) Regulations, 1993, the New STA and the Issuer have entered into an agreement dated               "																																				
5.  In terms of regulation 7(4) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing																																				
"Obligation and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Issuer is required to enter into an Agreement with the Existing STA and New STA at the time of change of the Existing STA."																																				
"NOW THEREFORE the Issuer, the Existing STA and the New STA do hereby agree as"																																				
follows:																																				
6.  The cut-off date for the purposes of this agreement shall be                     and the																																				
discontinuation of work by the Existing STA shall be                           which shall be mutually agreed among the parties. The parties may agree on different cut-off dates for different activities which shall be specified in the Annexure.																																				
7.  In terms of Clause 23 of Code of Conduct for Registrar to an Issue and Share																																				
"Transfer Agents as given in Schedule III of regulation 13 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue And Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993, the Existing STA has handed over all the records/ data and documents which are in its possession in its capacity as a share transfer agent to the New STA/ Issuer, within one month from the date of termination of agreement of Existing STA/ date of appointment of New STA."																																				
"8.  The Issuer has obtained ""No Objection Certificate"" (in prescribed format of the"																																				
"depositories) from Existing STA. (If any regulatory order has been passes against Existing STA, ""No Objection Certificate"" from Existing STA for shifting of ISIN will not be required.) and has paid all outstanding dues to existing STA after handover."																																				
9.  The Issuer had appointed an independent auditor to carry out sample check of the records/ data and documents to be handed over by Existing STA. It shall be																																				
Page 4 of 9																																				
Page 2 of 7																																				
responsibility of the Existing STA to certify and ensure completeness of all records																																				
of the Issuer (stored in Physical and/or electronic form) at the time of handover.																																				
10. The Existing STA had allowed the auditors appointed by the Issuer and New STA to inspect the records/ data and documents to be handed over to the New STA/ Issuer.																																				
"11. The Existing STA has handed over the records/ data and documents of previous 3 years to New STA prior to the cut-off date and rest of the records/ data and documents, if any, have been handed over to the Issuer."																																				
12. The Issuer and the Existing STA have ensured that all records/ data and documents along with computer data have been properly handed over to the New STA.																																				
13. The Existing STA had handed over the check list as per Annexure-I to the New STA prior to the audit. The Existing STA has handed over the records/ data and documents (as per Annexure-I) duly catalogued and indexed to the New STA under intimation to the Issuer. The Existing STA has elaborately listed out all the missing records/ data and documents in the Annexure-I enclosed. The Existing STA has also mentioned whether the said records/ data and documents were missing at the time of their appointment as share transfer agent or the same were handed over to them by the Issuer/ previous share transfer agent and records/ data and documents have been subsequently misplaced at their end.																																				
14. The New STA has acknowledged the receipt of the records/ data and documents and has performed a sample check on the records/ data and documents.																																				
"15. The discrepancies, if any, have been brought to the notice of Existing STA and the Issuer and have been incorporated in the Annexure-I."																																				
16. The capital reconciliation of the Issuer (i.e. Issued Capital = NSDL holding + CDSL holding + physical shareholding) has been be carried out by the New STA. The Existing STA has provided such capital reconciliation for data being handed over as on cut-off date.																																				
17. The New STA shall process various investor requests by using the data as provided by the Existing STA in good faith.																																				
"18. The Existing STA has provided its full co-operation to resolve the discrepancies in the records/ data and documents and has provided reasonable and clear explanation for discrepancies in the records/ data and documents, if any."																																				
"19. The Existing STA has extended necessary co-operation for shifting of ISIN to New STA as also for conversion of soft data as per file formats required for seamless loading by the New STA, to resolve gaps and/ or discrepancies observed in the records/ data and documents being handed over."																																				
20. The Existing STA has fully co-operated with the New STA and Issuer during the transition period for the change of share transfer agent.																																				
21. The Existing STA has performed all the activities of share transfer agent till cut-off date.																																				
22. All the liabilities/ responsibilities prior to cut-off date pertaining to share transfer																																				
"work shall be borne by the Issuer/ Existing STA, as applicable. The New STA will not under any circumstance be held liable/ responsible for the said period. Similarly, the Issuer/ New STA, as applicable, will take responsibility for all actions pertaining to share transfer work after the cut-off date and shall be held responsible for any liability arising thereafter, except for the liability that may arise on execution of the activities in good faith, based on the data received from the Issuer/ Existing STA."																																				
"23. After handing over the records/ data and documents, the Existing STA shall preserve soft copy of the data handed over to New STA for a period of 3 years and thereafter Existing STA will not be responsible for loss of any records pertaining to any such prior period."																																				
"24. The hard copy of the data /documents pertaining to physical shareholders as of cut- off date has been printed in triplicate by the Existing STA and the same has been signed by the Existing STA, New STA and the Issuer and shall be kept with each of the share transfer agent. (In case it is not possible to print the entire share master, then the soft copy of the data as of cut-off date shall be handed over to the Issuer, New STA and the Existing STA.)"																																				
"25. This Agreement has been signed by the parties only after Existing STA has issued the ""No Objection Certificate"" to shift the ISIN to New STA. All the items listed in Annexure-I have been checked by the auditor appointed by the Issuer and the New STA. Annexure-I has become a part of this Agreement and has been signed by the Existing STA, New STA and the Issuer."																																				
"26. The copy of this Agreement shall be submitted by the Issuer to the stock exchange(s) wherever the Issuer shares are listed. In terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015, intimation is required to be given to the stock exchange(s) within seven days of signing of the Agreement and the copy of this Agreement is to be tabled at the subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors of the Issuer."																																				
"27. All the disputes and the differences that may arise in future as regards this Agreement shall be resolved amicably and expeditiously and if such attempts fail, the same shall be resolved as per the provisions under law, for the time being in force."																																				
"28. The provisions of this Agreement shall always be subject to any rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued by Securities and Exchange Board of India and other provisions of law in force."																																				
"29. The Issuer has taken special contingency insurance policy to cover risk out of fraud, forgery, errors of commission/ omission, etc."																																				
"30. Words and expressions which are used in this Agreement, but which are not defined herein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the same meaning as assigned thereto in the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of India and circulars issued thereunder."																																				
"This Agreement can be altered, amended and/ or modified by the parties mutually in writing"																																				
"without derogating from the contents of this Agreement. Provided however, if the rights and obligation of the parties hereto are altered by virtue of changes in rules and regulations of Securities and Exchange Board of India or bye-laws, rules and regulations of the stock exchange(s), such changes shall be deemed to have been incorporated  herein  in"																																				
modification of the rights and obligations of the parties mentioned in this Agreement.																																				
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereinto have set their hands on the day and year																																				
hereinabove written.																																				
																																				
Signature of Existing STA						Signature of the Issuer										Signature of New STA																				
"Name,    Designation   and
Date"						"Name,    Designation  and
Date"										"Name,    Designation   and
Date"																				
Address						Address										Address																				
																																				
Signature of Witness						Signature of Witness										Signature of Witness																				
Name and Date						Name an Date										Name and Date																				
PaPgaege5 7ofo7f 9																																				
Annexure - I																																				
"Sr.
No."			"Records/          Data         and
Documents Name"										"Records/ Data and
Documents"				Missing Ranges						Remarks													
													From		To		From					To														
1																																				
"While handing over the records/ data and documents, the following shall be"																																				
listed in the above format.																																				
1. Specimen signatures of the physical shareholders																																				
2. Original Affidavits along with supporting documents for change in signatures of the holders recorded/ to be recorded by the Existing STA. KYC Forms along with supporting documents																																				
3. Transfer deeds/ transmission forms for securities duly transferred / transmitted along with supporting documents. Also photocopies for all objected transfer deeds/ transmission forms along with their supporting documents.																																				
"4. Pending  transfer  deeds  along  with  share  certificates  and  supporting  documents, received for transfer / transmission."																																				
5. Demat / remat request forms for already dematted/ rematted shares																																				
"6. Pending cases for demat/ remat, if any"																																				
"7. Register & request documents of stop transfers, name correction, transmission, duplicate consolidation/split s/c, nomination, transfers / transmission, demat, remat etc."																																				
8. Files for intimation to Stock Exchanges for loss of securities and data of duplicate certificates issued																																				
9. Register of power of attorney cases along with attested copies of the POAs and their specimen signatures																																				
"10. Memorandum and Articles of Association& board resolutions for corporate bodies,"																																				
11. Register and file of mandate cases along with soft copy.																																				
"12. File  of  original  executed  indemnities,  Affidavits,  etc.  along  with  all  supporting documents received for duplicate certificate issue, refund"																																				
"13. File of stop transfer cases, related correspondence/court injunction/ other orders, etc."																																				
14. Soft copy of previous year's Annual Return filed with ROC.																																				
15. Allottee registers for all issues (public/rights)																																				
16. Non allottee registers																																				
17. Allottee and non allottee IPO / rights applications																																				
18. Bank schedules																																				
19. Bulk registers																																				
20. Register of members																																				
21. Paid/unpaid list for refund/dividend (all years) along with soft copy																																				
22. Paid/unpaid list for allotment/call money along with soft copy																																				
23. Reconciliation of refund/dividend accounts																																				
"24. Paid warrants refund/dividend, if being stored by Existing STA"																																				
Page 8 of 9																																				
"25. Paid stubs allotment/call money, if being stored by Existing STA"																																				
26.Correspondence with shareholders																																				
27.File of legal cases/court/consumer forum/CBI /Police cases 28.Files of SEBI/NSE/BSE/RoC queries replies																																				
29.Undelivered postal articles (share certificates/refund/DDs/div war) 30.Original documents for nominations registered.																																				
31.IEPF Registers 32.Clause 5A registers.																																				
33.Last set of shareholding pattern reports including regulatory submissions (hard or soft copies)																																				
Computer data																																				
1. Name master																																				
2. Certificate master																																				
3. Transaction files (td files/demat files from beginning)																																				
4. Allottee/non-allottee data (public/rights/ Bonus / split / merger / demerger etc...)																																				
5. Dividend files (all years)																																				
6. Paid/unpaid files for dividend/refund																																				
7. Refund files																																				
8. Allotment/call money paid/unpaid files																																				
9. Signature scanned data if any (compatible with New STA system)																																				
10.   Benpos and history file of NSDL&CDSL for current financial year. 11.   Occupation code list and status code list																																				
"12.   Soft data unpaid dividend filed with IEPF for previous years. 13.   Data of forfeited shares, if any."																																				
14.   'stop' master																																				
"15.   All  other  transaction  files,  like  transmission,  duplicate  certificate,  master corrections etc."																																				
Company specific information																																				
1. List of Authorised signatories for transfer / transmission and duplicate/new share																																				
certificates.																																				
"2. Specific  work  instructions  including  limits  for  Duplicate/TWLR/Issue  of  new certificates, if any"																																				
3. MIS reporting system.																																				
"4. Handling of monitoring reports for Insider Trading, if any."																																				
"5. Capital build up history with DNR ranges, along with the details of the issues"																																				
"6. Copies of in principle/ listing/trading approvals from stock exchanges, if any."																																				
"7. Additional documents, if any."																																				
Page 9 of 9																																				
Whistleblow er																																				
Policy- Global																																				
HCL Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.																																				
"No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written."																																				
Revision History:																																				
Version				From	To			Description						Author									Approved By													
1				01 05 2009	30 09 2012			First Copy						Global Policies Team									Global Policies Head													
2				01 10 2012	30 09 2013			Revision						Global Policies Team									BOD													
3				01 10 2013	31 12 2015			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
4				01 01 2016	09 12 2017			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
5				10 12 2017	27 01 2019			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
6				28 01 2019	05 11 2019			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
7				06 11 2019	16 03 2020			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
8				17 03 2020	21 05 2020			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
9				22 05 2020	17 02 2022			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
10				18 02 2022	26 03 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
11				27 03 2023	03 05 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
12				04 05 2023	14 06 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
13				15 06 2023	14 09 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
14				14 09 2023	14 09 2023			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
15				01 05 2024	-			Revision						HR Policy &Compliance CoE									HR Policy &Compliance CoE Head													
Objective:																																				
"The principles of Trust through Transparency and Accountability are at the core of the existence of HCL Technologies Limited and its subsidiaries worldwide (hereinafter known as the “Company”). To ensure strict compliance with ethical and legal standards across the Company, the present policy has been created."																																				
The objectives of this Policy are:																																				
"-To create a window  for  any  person  who  observes  or  knows  of  any unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of a law, the Company’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (“Code”) or breach of any other Company policies or to report breach of Company’s Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (including any incident of leak or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information. (hereinafter, collectively the “Unethical and Improper Practices”), either organizationally or individually to be able to raise it;"																																				
"-To encourage timely, safe and open reporting of alleged wrong doings, potential illegal activity or suspected impropriety;"																																				
-To ensure consistent and timely institutional response;																																				
-To ensure appropriate reporting of Unethical and Improper Practices (whistleblower@hcl.com);																																				
-To encourage ethical and lawful conduct; and																																				
-To provide adequate safeguards against victimization or retaliation of persons.																																				
"“Note: Employees are advised to refer to the country specific addendums for Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria in addition to the Whistle Blower Policy – Global (available in Form section).  The addendums implement certain country specific legal requirements in addition to those under the Whistle Blower Policy – Global. Also note that in the event of conflict or inconsistency between the Whistle Blower Policy – Global and the country specific addendum, the addendums shall prevail.”"																																				
Scope:																																				
"This Policy defines and lays down the process for raising a Complaint, the safeguards in place for the person raising a Complaint, the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders, and sets the timelines for processes to be followed. In all instances, the Company retains the prerogative to determine when circumstances warrant an investigation and the appropriate investigative process to be employed, in conformity with this Policy and applicable laws and regulations."																																				
Complaints related only to Unethical and Improper Practices will be dealt by this Policy. Any Complaints related to HR issues will be forwarded to hear@hcl.com and issues related to sexual harassment will be forwarded to Secure@hcltech.com. An illustrative list of Complaints redressed by this Policy is provided in Annexure 1.																																				
Applicability:																																				
"This Policy covers all directors, officers, employees, third party vendors, consultants and customers throughout the world, operating out of any location of the Company."																																				
Definitions																																				
"-Whistleblower (""WSB""): A person or entity making a disclosure of any actual or suspected Unethical and Improper Practice that they have observed or have knowledge. Whistleblowers could be directors, employees, contractors, contractor’s employees, clients, vendors, internal or external auditors, law enforcement/regulatory agencies, or other third parties."																																				
"-Ethics Committee (“EC”): The Ethics Committee shall be comprised of at least four members, which shall include (i) the Head of Ethics Committee; (ii) one (1) member from Finance; (iii) one (1) member from Legal; and (iv) one (1) member from HR. The General Counsel is Head of Ethics Committee and including him current EC constitution comprises of six (6) members, others being two (2) from Finance;"																																				
"two (2) from Legal and one (1) from HR. EC may choose to appoint any additional member, if required."																																				
-Complaint: The reporting of any Unethical and Improper Practice to the EC made in good faith by a																																				
Whistleblower.																																				
"-Ombudsperson or Ombudsperson Function (""OF""): Any external agency / individual appointed to independently carry out preliminary investigation of the Complaint lodged by a Whistleblower."																																				
-Secretary: Any member of the EC or any other person as may be appointed by the EC to act as the Secretary of the EC. He/ she shall keep minutes of meeting of the EC.																																				
"-Audit Committee (""AC""): The Audit Committee of HCL Technologies Limited as constituted by its Board of Directors in accordance with the applicable law."																																				
-Company: HCL Technologies Limited and any direct or indirect subsidiary of HCL Technologies Limited.																																				
PolicyDetails:																																				
"It is the duty of all directors, officers and employees to notify the Company if they observe, or learn of, any Unethical and Improper Practices. Failure to promptly raise a known or suspected violation is considered an unethical behavior. Please refer to the Company's Code for the standards of ethical behavior and personal conduct."																																				
Reporting a Complaint																																				
"Reports of allegations of suspected Unethical and Improper Practices are encouraged to be made in writing so as to assure a clear understanding of the issues. Such reports should be factual rather than speculative and must contain as much specific information as possible to allow for proper assessment of the nature, extent and urgency of investigative procedures. The Whistleblower need not prove the concern but must demonstrate sufficient grounds for raising the concern. The disclosure can also be made anonymously, but it will be the decision of the EC to further act upon an anonymous Complaint or not, depending upon the disclosure so made. The Company encourages the complainant to provide his / her identity to facilitate timely and effective resolution of the Complaint."																																				
Employees can raise concerns by submitting their grievance in the Global Ethics Helpline. Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com. Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.																																				
Disqualification																																				
"In case the EC reaches a conclusion that a Complaint has been made in bad faith and is a false accusation, or is an abuse of process, or the Complaints are repeatedly frivolous, then the EC may recommend that appropriate action, subject to all applicable laws, be taken against the person making the false Complaint(s), including reprimand. Having said that, the Company clearly understands that some Complaints may not result in any finding of wrongdoing  or action at a later stage even though they are made in good faith. In such circumstances, no action would be initiated against the Whistleblower. It is also clarified that this process should not be used as a grievance redressal mechanism."																																				
Access to Chairman of the Audit Committee																																				
"The Whistleblower shall have a direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is authorized to prescribe suitable directions in this regard. Appropriate or exceptional cases shall be such Complaints that require adequate safeguards against victimization of directors, officers and employees."																																				
The Whistleblower can reach out to the Chairman of the Audit Committee by writing at chairman_ac@hcltech.com																																				
Procedure to Submit a Complaint																																				
The Complaint can be made in any of the following methods:																																				
Written Complaint: A written Complaint can be sent to the following address: Thought Arbitrage Research Institute																																				
"C-16, Qutab Institution Area, New Delhi – 110016, India"																																				
Email: A Complaint can be sent via email to the Ombudsperson at whistleblower@hcltech.com																																				
Note: Detailed procedure (Rules of procedure for the Whistleblowing channels concerning Human Rights																																				
and Environmental Protection) is provided in “Form” section including German Version																																				
Procedure of Investigation																																				
"The Ombudsperson will carry out preliminary investigation of a Complaint to decide if a full investigation is required based on facts alleged in the Complaint. If a full investigation is not required, the Ombudsperson shall submit its report to the EC."																																				
All Complaints received by the Ombudsperson will be categorized in two broad categories:																																				
"-Complaints against any EX band (i.e. Executive Vice Presidents) employees and above including CEO, CFO, CPO, and other Corporate Officers, (hereinafter collectively referred as ""C"" Level officers), and Complaints against any Director of the Company."																																				
-Complaints against others.																																				
"Complaints against any ""C"" Level officers, or Complaints against a Director or Chairman of the Company shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.  The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall decide to deal with such Complaint as he/ she may deem fit including appointing any investigation agency to investigate such Complaint and report to the Audit Committee. Any disciplinary action shall be decided by the Audit Committee."																																				
"For other Complaints, if the Ombudsperson decides that a full investigation is required, such Complaints shall be forwarded to the Internal Investigation team. The Internal Investigation team shall decide upon further investigation and the next steps in consultation with EC. The Internal Investigation team shall submit its interim report to HR Head and final report to the EC, and any disciplinary action shall be decided by HR head in consultation with the EC, as needed. A periodic update shall be provided by investigation team to the EC and the Audit Committee."																																				
For complaints under “Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) at Australia” please report to legal@dws.com.au																																				
Remedies and Discipline																																				
"If it is determined that an Unethical and Improper Practice has occurred, the following actions may be taken, as deemed fit to correct it:"																																				
-Any person found guilty of violation of the Company's Code will be subject to disciplinary action up toand including termination of employment or removal from position associated with the Company.																																				
"-Appropriate procedures, policies, and controls will be established in all departments to ensure earlydetection of similar violations."																																				
"-During the investigation period or at any time thereafter, if any employee is found to be (a) retaliatingagainst the Whistleblower, (b) coaching witnesses or (c) tampering with evidence, then it would lead to severe disciplinary action including termination of employment."																																				
"For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy does not preclude the remedies/processes available and provided"																																				
under applicable law(s) for any Unethical and Improper Practice.																																				
Documentation and Reporting																																				
"All documentation pertaining to the Complaint, including but not restricted to the investigation report, corrective action taken, and evidence will be maintained by the Internal Investigation team for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of disposal of the Complaint."																																				
Roles and Responsibilities																																				
Whistleblower:																																				
"-The Whistleblower provides the Complaint, which is the initial information related to a reasonable beliefthat an Unethical and Improper Practice has occurred. The motivation of a Whistleblower is irrelevant to the consideration of the validity of the allegation."																																				
"-Whistleblower (including anonymous Whistleblower) must provide all factual corroborating evidence, as"																																				
"isavailable/possible, to enable commencement of an investigation, material which demonstrates"																																				
"sufficient grounds for concern. However, the Whistleblower shall refrain from obtaining evidence for which they do not have a right of access and no protection would be guaranteed to the Whistleblower for having obtained information illegally."																																				
-The Whistleblowers will not be immune from disciplinary action if she/he is found guilty of or is a party tothe allegations.																																				
Whistleblower Protection																																				
"The Company will ensure to protect Whistleblowers against retaliation, as described below:"																																				
"-The Company will keep the Whistleblower's identity confidential, unless (a) the person agrees to beidentified; (b) identification is necessary to allow the Company or law enforcement officials to investigate or respond effectively to the report; (c) identification is required by law; or (d) the person accused of violations of the Unethical or Improper Practice is entitled to the information as a matter of legal right in disciplinary proceedings."																																				
"-The Company prohibits retaliation against a Whistleblower with the intent or effect of adversely affectingthe terms or conditions of employment (including but not limited to, threats of physical harm, loss of job, punitive work assignments, or impact on salary or wages). Whistleblowers who believe that they have been retaliated against may file a written Complaint with the EC. A proven Complaint of retaliation shall result in a proper remedy for the person harmed and severe disciplinary action including termination of employment against the retaliating person. This protection from retaliation is not intended to prohibit managers or supervisors from taking action, including disciplinary action, in the usual scope of their duties and based on valid performance-related factors."																																				
Communication																																				
-This policy as amended from time to time shall be disclosed on the website of the Company and in the report of the Board of Directors of the Company.																																				
-The Audit Committee reviews the policy and its implementation on periodic basis and is provided a quarterly update on the status of various Complaints received and investigated.																																				
Annexure 1: Illustrative List of Unethical or Improper Practices																																				
-Breach of Code and other Company policies																																				
"-Unethical business practices like bribery taken / given (both financial and non-financial favours) Misuse / embezzlement of Company funds, assets, property, facilities etc."																																				
-Negligence causing substantial risk to public health and safety																																				
-Manipulation of Company data / records																																				
"-Financial irregularities, including fraud or suspected fraud"																																				
-Abuse of authority																																				
-Violation of law / regulation																																				
"-Breach of Company’s Code to regulate, monitor and report Insider Trading by designated persons and their immediate relatives, including any incident involving leak or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information"																																				
-Any other unethical behavior																																				




